Good morning.
I'm really excited about what we have to show today.
And I'd like to frame some of what you're going to see next.
Palance here has shipped real agents to production
to help our customers achieve their mission.
For example, agents that help discharge patients faster,
leading to more patients treated,
or agents that process mortgage applications
to get loans approved faster, or first-party agents
that help you build faster, like AIFD,
or leverage your ontology, like AIP analyst.
Through forward-deployed engineering,
we've found what's necessary to actually earn those wins.
Today, we're launching those as new capabilities.
To motivate this, let's try and build an agent
to see some of the challenges that come up
as you go through this process.
This is the before, in the before and after process.
So we're going to see some things that might make this challenging.
We can start with a trivial agent for something
that searches for data and answers questions
just to demonstrate this.
So first, we need a model.
It takes inputs, mostly text, but also things
like images, audio and video, and descriptions of tools
so that it can use those to interact with other systems.
It then produces outputs like text, images, thinking,
and reasoning traces, and tool calls.
This is DevCon, so let's see this in code.
It typically looks something like this.
And this is using one of the open source AI libraries,
but you can swap out any of those, the same concept supply.
We provide some input to the model as messages.
We can add a tool.
In this case, let's say a simple data set search tool.
It has an input schema and a function to actually execute.
This function typically will do some things
like loading some data and then formatting the results.
This should look familiar if you've
built any sort of agents both in the platform
or just elsewhere.
In practice, though, you end up with a lot more complexity.
Here's a tool in AI FD that has a very rich set
of presentation states and interactivity.
The model can trigger a build or a user can trigger a build.
The build service can update the state of this build.
A user can say, I actually don't want
to block this agent on waiting for this build,
and I want to just proceed anyway.
There's a lot of different ways you can actually engage
with the process that the agent is going to.
It's more of a state machine than a simple function.
And this is one example, but in practice,
many agents are multiplayer like this.
Along with the model, you have participants
like the user expressing their intent
or external systems updating the state of the world.
And expressing this can be challenging,
but ignoring this makes it much harder for users
to engage with and steer the agent.
Let's say we get past those challenges
and we want to go in and add a front end.
Why do we even need a front end?
And what makes a good front end?
Well, if we want to build agents that are doing real work,
this means that we need to be able to understand their work
and build trust before increasing their autonomy.
This means putting agents in front of the decision makers,
the nurse, the foreman, the network engineer.
We want to present context in the natural UI for it,
at the right resolution for those decision makers.
We want the proof that the agent did the right work
and to see the state of the world as it went in
and made those decisions.
Let's zoom into our example.
In code, the models and all the libraries that use them,
all give you something similar, something
like this to represent the interactions
that the agent has as messages in a session.
We're already starting to see some of the trickiness here,
things like tool parameters being untyped
and outputs being more oriented around what
we're showing the model than what we
want to represent to be able to go out and build
the interfaces that we care about.
We're losing a lot of that structure
that we need to be able to interpret a session that an agent
goes through.
Working with what we have, we can render a session that
looks something like this.
And the main part to pay attention to here
is the detail of how we actually show something
like tool calls.
It might look something like this.
But we actually want to render this UI
in some sort of structured way.
Maybe you want to show a table with formatted results
or we want to show something else that represents it
in the way that our decision makers think about it.
This often means we have to do things like reload the data.
But the data-- the world might have changed.
And we might be showing a state that is not what the agents
saw when it was going and making these decisions.
And the alternative of parsing out
what we see from what we're showing the model
is equally messy and unreliable.
These challenges go beyond just building interfaces.
Even though building interfaces is a critical part
of actually putting your agents in production
and building that trust, we also need it
because we want to be able to compound over time.
We want to use this structure to aggregate and understand
what is and isn't working in the different sessions
that we have.
What are the patterns of success and failure?
And how can we improve our agent over time?
This is where that compounding is key.
And this is an ingredient we need to get that.
In addition to all of these problems,
we also have the challenge of durable execution.
Agents go through all of these complex series
of interactions across several states.
Failures from model APIs, which are not uncommon,
or external systems can leave an agent process
in an incomplete state.
Production agents need to be resilient to this type of failure.
And this is doubly true with agents
that can span not just minutes, but hours, days, or weeks.
And when you're working against critical workflows,
like being able to address patient care,
you can't drop these sessions on the ground.
You have to be able to address them
and make sure they work reliably.
And those are only some of the challenges that we see.
We also have things like security.
How can we make sure that the scope of an agent
is the minimum needed to complete a task
to defend against the risks that you have,
or the handling of retry semantics or concurrency,
or observability and optimization of the end-to-end workflow
instead of an individual session?
Or things like model migration when token costs run rampant,
or when a new model comes out, deciding
if it's the right tool for the task.
Bringing agents to production takes a lot.
Today, we're launching the agent stack,
a set of products to help you build production agents
with the lessons that we've learned built in.
This is an overview of what you'll
see across some of the next launches.
First, we need a durable execution layer.
Orchestrator provides this foundation
with isolation, security, and observability out of the box.
And it's built to efficiently manage these executions
across long time scales.
Once we have the infrastructure, we
need an agent primitive that can represent
the different shapes of agents that you want to build.
And there's a lot of different ways
you can construct these agents.
Agent Engine provides this with an expressive API
that makes common workflows easy but allows
you to express more complicated agents in production.
We want both our pro-code developers and low-code builders
to use this primitive in a first-class way.
For pro-code, Agent SDK exposes a strongly-typed API
with a high-level API for common operations
and a low-level API for that fine-grained control.
And for low-code builders, Agent Builder
gives you the uninterpretable interface
to the same building blocks.
Once you build your agents, understanding
how they are used in the field is critical to making sure
they are working as intended and improving them.
Agent Manager gives you the telemetry and observability
to do this for all the agents you deploy on the platform.
And just as important as V1 is Vn+1.
When you want to reduce cost or optimize for the right model
for the task, AIP Evolve can automatically
do that for you across your entire workflow, end-to-end.
And of course, all of this is possible
because it's built on that foundation of ontology.
The substrate that represents your organization
and allows AIP to understand how your agents are deployed
into your organization and how they should change over time.
