Well, we just saw that we have this amazing durable layer that can allow us to reduce
these agents in the field, we have agent engine, so that's it, we're production ready, right?
We can just go straight ahead.
But we really need to ask what does it mean to be production ready, because even though
we have all of these primitives that allow us to build the agent that we want to build,
we still have failures in the field and we want to understand what that means.
So the first question we often find ourselves asking is, is the agent correct?
So is the agent displaying the behaviors that I want my agent to be showing over time?
And correctness isn't just whether it is getting to the right outcome.
We want to know is it performant?
Is it doing it quickly?
Is it being efficient?
Is it using too much compute?
But in reality, we've spoken about this earlier, we aren't just talking about an agent in isolation.
This agent isn't just operating in its own little world.
When we're talking about agents on the ontology, we want to talk about these agents working
both in a multiplayer environment and also with other humans in the loop.
So then we have to ask ourselves, is the workflow debuggable?
Can you see the lifecycle of your ontology and understand how you got to a terminal state?
Is the outcome itself efficient?
Is your process succeeding?
And we can take a supply chain example and have a work order that comes in and we can
see it was delivered late.
Well, to answer why that delivery was late, then we need to look at procurement.
And if we take the patient discharge example that we've been talking about today, we also
need to look at patient intake.
Were there decisions that were made earlier that influenced the decisions of humans and
agents in the loop as we go along?
But in reality, when we start seeing these things in a multiplayer workflow, we don't
want to just see our workflow remain static.
We want to see it evolve.
We want to see it improve as failures happen.
So most platforms will give you broad telemetry and expect you to drink from the fire hose.
But we want to give you a way in which you can derive value from your telemetry.
So AIP out of the box also provides a way of evolving these workflows, taking this rich
structured exhaust of information, and allowing you to process it with no additional work
on your side.
We're not adding logs ourselves, we're not asking you to think about how you're going
to monitor this in the future, the use of our platform gets you to these outcomes sooner.
So these are the three critical dimensions we're measuring agents by in the platform.
There's no homework for you, this telemetry is generated by every agent.
And your ontology captures exactly what happened within your business process.
We're not just talking about what loglines got produced when a single execution happened,
we're talking about how your organization changed over time.
So I had a few slides, but I think the most compelling version of this narrative is a
demo.
So I'll be showing what we have in the platform today.
I'm starting here in AIP autopilot, and I told you about a manufacturing workflow.
And in this example, an urgent request for a rear bench seat came in and a delivery fulfillment
agent has actually fulfilled and created that delivery.
So we have a loaded telemetry on the screen, but I want to focus on the left side.
This is your base expectation from any developer platform.
We have traces and we have logs, we can convert these to open telemetry, we can use them in
our observability tool of our liking, but this is a very simple example.
If you've ever been in a major incident and you've got a complex process or a complex
agent, there's usually hundreds, thousands of traces on the screen, you're sweating,
you don't know exactly what to look at, and the truth is you don't just want the raw
exhaust, you want the narrative that has been produced by it.
And this is what we have on the right.
Because AIP is producing the structured outputs, we're able to quickly tell what's happened
here.
In this case, we've had an orchestrator managed function that has been handling the creation
of this delivery.
We've had an action that has changed two objects in my ontology, and there have been
two calls to LLMs.
We can even go as far as seeing the specifics of those calls to the LLMs, the requests,
the responses, and the token usage.
But this isn't telling us the story.
We're actually just seeing still some version of the raw output.
What becomes interesting here is then jumping in and seeing this telemetry through multiple
lenses, despite the fact that it is a single output.
So to start with, I wrote this orchestrated function in AIP logic, and I can see the raw
version of this narrative in logic in terms of the transforms I've written.
Then John came on stage and he spoke about us having this durable compute layer for orchestrator.
And here I can see the direct ledger of every event that has happened in my durable compute
and whether those tasks started completed and when the invocation and process completed.
And then finally introducing AIP inspect.
AIP inspect is this data made available to your operational user.
So your operational user may not need to care about the fact that this is a logic function,
but they do need to rationalize the reasoning and the decisions that an agent made.
So in this case, I have a summary of this work order that was generated.
And as a user, I can go in and look at this agent step, even though that this was deeply
embedded in an automation that was running a logic function that was running an agent internally.
I mentioned this is just one isolated piece of telemetry.
He actually are talking about a narrative and what happened to this work order over time.
And this allows me to take a step back and introduce agent timeline.
So once we zoom out and we look at the lifecycle of this particular work order, we see that
the concept of optimization and performance has many factors.
So in this narrative, this is my individual trace that represented delivery fulfillment.
But 83% of the time was waiting for me to respond to a quote when a request for quote
was created.
I'm sorry, it was early in my day.
And we can even see there's a large amount of token usage.
But the majority of that token usage sits in my chat bot.
So an optimization here may not be just trying to take token usage out of individual agent
executions or trying to create efficiencies.
It may be as simple as replacing this chat bot with a form.
So I've shown a zoomed out narrative of a single ontology object.
But then once you have this agent running in the field for a long time over multiple
cycles, you start to create a rich substrate of information that we can start to evolve
this workflow with.
I'm going to go back to this particular trace.
And I'm going to pass out to Colton who's going to talk about how we evolve these in
the platform.
Awesome.
So I want to take us back to sort of the domain context that this demo is operating
in.
So I think, as Jig was saying, this is a really, really urgent work order that's coming in.
And now that we have all of this rich observability infrastructure, we can tell that this human
agent system works.
But as many of you know, getting an AI system to just work is not sufficient.
It doesn't matter if it just works today, it has to work tomorrow.
It also has to work the next day, and then the next day, and the next day.
Has to keep working.
That's what production means.
But also, ideally, it's getting better over time.
It's getting faster.
It's getting cheaper.
It's improving quality over time.
So I'd like to drill down into this.
I think, as we're looking at this trace, Jig was saying, this is a really urgent work order.
If I look at how long this particular agent took to run, it was 32 seconds.
That is not fast enough.
And I think to solve that, there's so many different options we need to explore.
We have all of this rich infrastructure to see this trace understand what's costing latency
where.
But if I were actually to myself go in and then try to fix this problem, I'd have to
think through a bunch of different ideas of how to optimize.
I'd have to figure out, OK, if I make any of these changes, is it going to break anything,
upstream or downstream?
I'd have to really think about the end-to-end system, the human on the other end of this
agent.
And I'd have to really, really be sure of all of these changes.
That takes a lot of time.
Imagine doing that across not just one agent, but maybe a handful, maybe dozens, maybe hundreds,
maybe thousands.
And each of these agents are getting more and more embedded into your operations.
So that's why I'm extremely excited to launch AIP Evolve, which is our new product for
the agent optimization.
So it can take any of your AI systems, and it will deploy teams of agents against those
to optimize any objective that you have to make your AI systems better, whether you are
trying to bring down token costs, whether you're trying to make something faster, like we'll
do here, or improving quality just measured by your evals.
Evolve can do that, and it can do that within the context of your organization.
So I want to show you what that actually looks like in product.
I'll click this button up here.
As we're looking at this execution, this will take us to AIP Evolve.
It'll load for a second here, but it's capturing all of that context from that rich observability
layer that we were just looking at.
The first step of starting one of these optimizations with Evolve is to define what your goal is.
And you can see there's a bunch that comes out of the box here, something like optimizing
cost, optimizing your evals scores.
In this case, we know we want to optimize for latency, try to bring that from 32 seconds
down to whatever the fastest version of this agent could look like.
So that's the first thing.
That's our North Star that Evolve is going to operate against and work towards.
But once we've set that North Star, we have to think about, okay, as Evolve does this
work, how can we make sure that it doesn't break anything in the meantime?
How does it validate itself as it performs this work agentically?
So here we can select from whether or not we have existing evals we want to use, or if
we need AIP Evolve to generate some new ones for us, it can look at your actual ontology
data, your actual production runs, again, rooted in all of this observability infrastructure,
and it can choose what good evals might look like based on the complexity of your use case.
You can choose how many tests you want to configure.
You can also think through, okay, do I have metrics I already know about or do I want
Evolve to do some sort of LLM as a judge side-by-side comparison?
That's all fair game here.
You can also configure how much output divergence is acceptable, whether you need it to match
behavior exactly, whether some level of semantic difference is okay, or if you just want Evolve
to decide.
Finally, after we've configured that validation strategy, we then have to think about, as
Evolve optimizes towards this North Star objective of optimizing latency, in this case, what
constraint should we put on the agent?
What changes is it allowed to make?
What's that action space?
So, for example, in this case, I know we're using LLMs, maybe a model swap could bring
down latency.
We can swap to something that's faster, cheaper.
Maybe as we do so, we'll need to tweak the prompt and update our instructions because every
model has its own quirks.
Maybe there are broader things we need to consider, like complete architectural changes
of the agent, maybe redesigning what deterministic work looks like versus agent-backed work.
Maybe we need to think about how do we change the harness, the tools, all of those definitions,
all of those different components we're seeing in the agent stack around the agent that makes
it perform effectively.
So, I'll keep all of those in scope, and then finally, I can set my iteration budget.
Here, I'll just say Evolve can operate for five iterations before it has to quit and report
back.
So, I've set all that up.
The next step here is just to hit this big purple Evolve button, and what this does is
it starts handing off all of this work with all of that configuration to AI FDE, which
is then going to manipulate the platform for us.
It's going to divide the work into subagents, trying to parallelize it as much as possible,
and then it's going to relentlessly pursue this objective that we set with all of the
constraints that we have in mind.
And so, you can see it's already getting started.
There are some other components of this.
We'll talk a lot about them throughout DevCon, so I'm not going to go too much into the weeds
of what the skill document you're seeing is, or any of this ontology context.
I have already run this particular optimization on this agent, so I want to fast forward to
what does it look like in Evolve after everything is all said and done?
So, this is AIP Evolve, the app.
You can see, this is the final proposal it came up with, but before we get into this,
I'm going to show you the ledger of the work that Evolve performed throughout this optimization.
So, you can see here the agent lineage graph, where each node here represents a different
iteration Evolve went through as it was trying to optimize, so each thing here is a different
step where it's trying to figure out, what should I change?
How should I validate it?
I can go and expand it.
You can see each of the different subagents that were produced along the way, everything
from early discovery of the function, what model it was using, how is my agent performing,
what downstream actions are being called, and then you can kind of see, as it progresses,
it starts launching these experiments.
It's trying to do things like swapping to a really small model, seeing how that performs.
It's trying to remove some tools, seeing if we can extract that into deterministic logic.
It's tracking all of these insights and the actual artifacts it's producing, like, for
example, a branch with an optimization idea as it works.
All of this is happening in parallel, so it's trying out different options for optimization,
then it's running the Evales as it built, and then it's continually pruning options,
kind of, keeping things that are working.
And finally, this is the final proposal view.
Ultimately, what Evolve is able to deliver here, as we look at it together, is it was
able to cut latency by 60 to 90%, varying based on how complex the work order was, how
many quotes it had, et cetera.
So in that three-quote case, it was like 81% of latency drops, so from 45 seconds to 8.8
seconds, so much better than JEGS version.
And the way it did this, as we scroll through this proposal, we can see exactly what changed
and why and how we validated it.
So first, there was a model swap from GPT 5.5 to 5.4 mini, so that definitely made things
faster.
As it did so, it had to rewrite the prompts to make GPT 5.4 mini actually perform at the
bar that we were holding with that larger, more expensive frontier model.
So you can see it has all of this detail in here about what details that should include
based on how GPT 5.4 was performing.
And then there are some more architectural changes here that it goes into, specifically
around, okay, it actually replaced one of the tools that the model was calling with totally
deterministic function-backed logic that was in line in the logic function, such that we
didn't have to query dynamically data from the ontology, we could just prefetch it and
put it into the agent's context, that was one gain that we had.
And then we also extracted some of the AI-based logic out of the loop that JEG was showing
earlier throughout those traces, so we were reducing duplicate work.
As we keep scrolling, we can see how it validated all of this.
It shows different test cases stratified based on different levels of complexity in the ontology.
We'll talk a lot more about that in a second, but you can click into any of these artifacts
and see what did these evals look like?
What were the metrics configured?
Was it just doing side-by-side reviews?
If you really want to get into the weeds, you can see the tables and all of the side-by-side
differences here as we scroll through.
But to kind of take a big step back, Evolve is this new layer of AIP that lets you pursue
these optimization objectives so that you can improve your agents over time.
Whether that means latency, whether that means cost, whether that means just performance in
general, Evolve is here for you to deploy against your AI use cases in production, and
the way it can work, the way it's so powerful, is because it's all rooted in the ontology,
the domain model of your actual organization, and this rich observability layer of AIP, which
has all of this information you need to see what's going on, see what's working, what's
not working, and that's how AIP Evolve lets you compound.
So thank you, everyone.
