(soft music)
Hi, I'm Chad Walquist.
I'm an architect at Palantir.
Today, I have Jonas,
who's a Ford deployed engineer at Palantir.
Spends a lot of time, like I do,
talking to customers about the ontology,
how to model it, right?
People think about what is this new thing?
Do I shove my data warehouse into the ontology?
Like, do I take my system tables?
What do I need to do to model this
and really govern it, right?
So, thank you for joining me to talk about this today.
Hi, looking forward to talk about the ontology, you know.
Yeah, so, I think maybe I'll help set the frame
of what we think about, like,
when I talk about the ontology,
it's like, how do I model the real world?
How it actually exists?
How do I model your business in the terms,
in the nouns and verbs of how it's actually operating?
Not how you need to put a data warehouse
for some sort of reporting tool to work on it,
for some system scale.
Really, the ontology in the Palantir ontology,
the goal is to model how the real world works,
which means it's kind of weird
compared to what people are used to.
And so, I think this is a topic we get all the time.
So, I'm glad that we're gonna get to kind of
demystify this both on the proper way to do things,
but also some of the anti-patterns that we see
through all of our experience.
Yeah, absolutely.
And, yeah, we came up with these design principles
and hand-to-patterns.
They are grounded in the theory of software engineering,
but then also from what we've experienced in the field,
and what works in reality, what works for the business,
to drive a lot of value for the business,
and but also for the teams that maintain the ontology.
And these best practices,
they help a lot building a robust ontology
and making it future-proof.
Yeah.
Well, why don't we just jump into kind of starting with this?
I know we updated some of the docs,
we'll put a link out there for people to look at that.
But as we go through here,
maybe you can just kind of give me the high level
on what you think about
and how you break down the ontology design.
Yeah, absolutely.
So basically, we have these four fundamental best practice
patterns, which is the domain-driven design.
Don't repeat yourself, open-close principle,
and composition of our deep hierarchies.
And let's start with the first one, domain-driven design.
So if we take a look at the graphic here,
you basically want to model it in three steps
before actually building something.
You want to think and understand the domain
that you're working with,
then you want to design the ontology,
the object types, the links between them
and the actions on these objects.
And then finally, map your source data
and your logic to that ontology.
So fundamentally, with that principle,
you model the reality,
and you're not just replicating something
that some other software is pushing you into.
Yeah.
And let's take a look at an example for this principle.
So when we take a look here,
we might have, as an example here,
have a table in our source system called order data.
And if we just model that one-to-one
into our ontology,
then we would have a lot of different entities in there.
In that order data,
you could have customer names and emails.
You could have technical properties
from saying here in this example,
CIM extracted at CIM batch ID,
does not really have any business value.
And this would, if you do it like that,
would introduce anti-patterns.
So one of that is what we call the God object.
And it just pollutes your object type
with team specific or technical properties.
And then on top of that,
the object type also represents
multiple distinct entities.
And then next to that,
we also have the kitchen sink, anti-pattern,
where you just map all source columns one-to-one
into your object type,
even though they are not really needed.
And what that does is someone working on that object type,
looking at these properties,
maybe wants to do some changes
or use it in a workshop application
or any other front end.
They are understanding the object type.
They get confused like,
do I really need us, what does this actually mean?
And by keeping the object types focused
and actually representing different real-world entities,
it's way easier to understand for business people,
but also for technical builders.
>> And it's been an important point though too,
is like when we think about the ontology,
this is for how our humans are actually talking.
Not necessarily how your developers are building reports,
like what I want ontology is how the business
actually operates and talks about these terms.
But also there's like weird stuff I've seen,
like the batch ID and these other things.
There's like these technical flags and components
that are in these objects that often we find
kind of get ported in rather than the function
or what people are trying to go do with these things.
And so it creates a constant friction
that I'm having to translate back and forth
for my business users
because I'm talking in a different language, right?
>> Yeah, exactly.
Then people start talking about the same things,
and it's ultimately the power of the ontology
that everyone works out from the same base.
So what does this look like done right?
>> Yeah, let's take a look at that.
So rather than just having order data,
we want to take a look on the domain.
And if I work with orders, okay, I need the order itself.
I'm interested about the customer,
and I'm interested in the product of that order.
And so I would say, okay, I have three different
object types here, which is the order, the customer
and the product.
And then also identify from the sewer state,
okay, what are the properties that are needed
for these different object types
and how do they relate to each other.
And first, by modeling these things together,
it's easier for people to understand looking
at these object types and using the links
and seeing the relationships between that.
Then also future workflows can really benefit
from these different entities
because they can build on top of that.
And if you maybe have a customer support kind of workflow
that comes after this order workflow,
you can just bolt it on to the customer.
And then really have that understanding,
don't have a high lift of remodeling your ontology
just because you want to have another use case.
Ultimately, that means once you build it right
with the best design principles,
it's the ontology also compounds more easily.
And it's quicker to build future workflows and more robust.
>> Yeah, and I think it's like since for this here,
this reminds me very much of like dimensional model,
which can be kind of a trap here, right?
So like, you know, if I have a dimensional data warehouse,
this might, the order might be a fact table
and the customer and product might be dimensions.
And so it's very tempting to just show
dimensional data warehouse tables
straight into ontology objects,
which can work in some scenarios,
but you start to get more complicated
into these relationships across different measures
and domains and other things as you,
and that becomes a bottleneck
because I've modeled stuff in these weird domains
that don't necessarily cross over nicely.
And so I think this is where like,
in a very simple example, this makes a lot of sense,
but it can be very similar to a dimensional data warehouse
in this case, right?
>> Yes, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, ultimately with that modeling,
it allows everyone to really work on that same ontology together.
>> Yeah, and because I might have very complex,
like we're showing many to one relationships here,
but I might have many to many across different measures
or at different granularities.
And so traditionally, like we account for those
in very kind of static or predefined ways.
And I think the goal out of the ontology here is,
is actually, let's just model all of those complexities
and allow for the ontology to manage the scaling
and performance and security and other components
to be able to work across those kind of conjoined domains.
'Cause the goal is to create that visual twin
across your entire business process, right?
>> Right, right, yeah.
So, okay, cool, I like this.
So the domain-driven design really think about
how the real world works.
What's the next, what's the next one?
>> Okay, yeah, let's take a look.
The next one is don't repeat yourself.
And so if we look at that at the basic principle is here,
if you did something three times,
let's say you have a very similar object type,
or almost the same three times,
then you want to refactor that.
But you can, you should also take that in mind
when you start modeling the ontology
and building in the ontology.
So in this example, if we take a look at the left,
we have three object types.
One is a sales customer, one is a support customer,
one is a billing customer.
And that all seems to be basically the same.
And okay, in reality, this might happen,
you start with a sales use case,
and then a support use case,
and maybe at some point a billing use case.
But keep in mind when you maybe start with the sales use case,
you don't want to have a sales customer,
you want to just start with the customer.
And keep in mind that in the future,
there might be additional use cases,
or additional teams working on your ontology object customer.
In reality, in a business,
multiple teams, multiple departments,
work with a customer entity.
And so the problems that are being introduced here
is they all have the same properties,
and someone needs to maintain that.
And updating a name and one object,
and not doing it in the third object can cause problems,
because then at one site of the ontology, your data is stale.
And instead really model the customer object,
or if there are really different object types,
because fundamentally in the business operations,
you need to separate separation,
then you can also use an interface here,
which allows you to just plug in an action
that knows based on the interface.
Okay, I have a name, email and the phone number,
and I can update it with one action, for example,
and don't need three different actions
for each individual object type.
>> Yeah, which I think is an important point here,
is if I have, because this is how we get
to not one version of the truth,
where I have a sales customer, support customer,
which we see in data landscapes all the time,
so I think it's the cool, how do I model this effectively?
So the single customer or the interface approach
gives us that singular kind of version of the truth,
but also the interoperability to allow me
to work on different use cases by using interfaces,
or other ways to manage all the different components of it,
so that I still have that one object
that everyone builds off.
I think this comes back to the global view
of the ontology as it should be universal
across the whole company.
>> Yeah, yeah, let's take a look deeper into that.
>> Yep.
>> So, yeah, basically if you don't adhere
to this design perspective, what could happen?
And there's a few anti-patterns that could be established here.
So, for example, if you go into sales support
and billing customer each,
then you would establish department silos,
because in your sales department,
you're maybe your CSS team and your billing team,
they all operate in their own world,
and one, if they need to collaborate on something,
being in these silos causes problems,
because they might look at a case from a customer,
but then have different conflicting information
about that customer,
because it was established in these silos.
And then the same could be another anti-pattern
which we could call the system silos.
And for that one, it's just mapping the entity,
how it is in the sewer system, almost one-to-one,
and then you just replicate your silo
that you have in your existing landscape,
and not let the different systems like a CRM system
help their system one-year-piece system talk to each other.
And where the ontology is really good
at integrating and breaking down these silos
from existing landscapes.
>> Yeah, I think the important piece there too is like,
most of our customers have N number of ERPs, for example,
and we have customers that have 70 or hundreds
or 150 different ERP systems alone,
all with customer.
Like it would not be a very scalable approach,
it wouldn't be very useful to have a customer
for each single one.
And I think that how do I create this unified view,
but then also be able to write back,
'cause that's the other piece of this
is the bi-directional component
where I need to be able to understand
where did this, what system of this come from,
which region, which area, or which business unit this ERP is.
So it's like, I need to be able to combine,
but understand the lineage and provenance
of those things to be able to make it actionable, right?
>> Yes, absolutely.
>> And then even thinking about the actions
where you mentioned actionable,
yeah, we also have some anti-patterns.
So if you have these three different object types,
all representing a customer,
and you need actions to update the properties
like name, email, and phone,
then on each individual object type,
you need to have either one action or three actions,
however it is needed to update it,
and it's a multiplier of the resources
that are getting built for that.
And that actually also introduces anti-patterns,
which we call action sprawl.
So there are two angles here.
One is, okay, you have actions duplicated
across the same entities,
just because these entities are duplicated,
these object types, and the other part is,
which we see here in this example is,
you don't want to have an action
that updates individual properties like name,
and then another one for email,
and another one for phone,
you would want to have one that updates maybe all three
to say like update my customer contact information.
And then the next one,
which we can also see in this example
is what we call the golden hammer, anti-pattern.
And this is,
comes from the saying,
if everything you have as a hammer,
then everything looks like a nail.
And in this example is maybe you don't want to have an action
actually to update the contact information,
because they don't change it frequently,
and it's maintained or the sources in the source system.
So you might want to take a pipeline that feeds into it,
and not an action that you need to execute
whenever something changes.
There are other properties,
maybe in this for our customer,
where you want to update the properties.
>> Yeah, well, I think this is the important part,
because a lot of people think about modeling as data modeling,
but like we're modeling a business process,
the data, the logic, the action.
So this action piece is really important,
because not only for the human piece,
but as we talk about agentic world,
like I need the agents to be able to understand
the right level at how do I actually go make things happen.
So that's also the importance here of these actions,
and in getting this right and mapped correctly,
is like, I have to think about how do agents work
in this environment, in the ontology,
alongside humans, like I have to have these actions
that make sense so they can go do things for me.
>> Yes, yes, exactly.
And then also when you want to drive decisions,
for people understanding what do these actions do,
saying, okay, update customer contact information,
let's move a little bit to the right,
how good looks like here.
For this, you know what contact,
everyone knows what contact information is and so on,
and just having actions that go into one single property,
and maybe even the property in some cases
has some cryptic name, then it's better
to give it a real good description,
so everyone knows what this does,
and it's easily understandable.
>> Yep, and so having this interface here, for example,
allows me to implement customer across those different
interfaces for the sales, the support, or billing,
so it gives me that flexibility
while still having that standard view of what a customer is,
but now it can be implemented in a different way,
so this is important when we want high reuse
across ontology, which is really the compounding asset,
you know, this is how we get the most value
of ontology is by not repeating ourselves,
so we can have high reuse,
so that the next use case is just additive.
>> Yes, absolutely, and I think one thing to mention
that's important here as well is,
if we decide to use the interface,
because the workflows around these objects
are fundamentally different,
and move from sales customers to podcast more,
and billing customer to an interface,
then it should be probably something like it's,
then the object should be a sales lead,
or a support contact, or a billing account,
and then separately also have a customer object
that can be linked to that,
and because that describes more
what the purpose of that is for the workflow.
>> Yeah, yeah, very good.
I think that's a good rich kind of feedback loop
of how you start to actually have to deconf these things,
how the real world's actually working in this stuff,
so that's great.
Cool, all right, so we kind of see
what a good looks like, what's the next pattern?
>> Yeah, so the next one is the open, close principle.
And what it basically says is open for extension,
and closed for modification,
and now specifically for the ontology, yeah.
We have the first, the ability,
what we see in the graphic is to make object types,
when you create object types, they're experimental,
and then you can make them active
once they are ready for production.
And then it's a flag inside of the ontology
that shows, okay, this object type
is now being used in the production environment,
and gives a signal to develop us, okay,
I have to be careful here,
I cannot just change things just like that.
And that plays together
with the close for modification principle,
where you say, okay, I already have something,
and it should be designed
that there should not be much change
with an object type that is active.
And we can take a look at the example here,
so we would have an equipment object,
and then we now have a new use case
where we say, okay, we now need to certify our equipment.
And instead of just saying, okay,
I take the certification information
and just put it onto the equipment object as new properties,
instead I can link a new type to the equipment object,
and then use an interface here,
and say, okay, all my different equipment,
or maybe even other object types,
if we think about equipment,
what could it be?
It could be a truck, for example,
but it also at some point needs certification.
And then we have our model,
our equipment certification object type,
and link it, in the future,
I can also be linked to a hypothetical truck object.
And through the interface,
I can design my actions, my kinetics,
to then actually wield the certifications,
and drive the decisions for that.
And instead of making changes
in existing, in-production, closed object type.
- Yeah, and so really the concept here is like,
I wanted to be additive to the component,
and I want to be able to extend and build on this
with new object types and other components,
but in order if, yes, we have global branching,
we have all these kind of safeguards
and change management place,
but still, if I go remove an indicator
or a field out of an ontology type,
that will have ripple effects.
So yes, you could do that,
but it's gonna be very expensive from a time
and overhead standpoint,
but really it comes back to I want to extend it
and have these new capabilities are very additive,
so I'm allowing people to then uptake new capabilities
as I'm adding it,
rather than I'm breaking everything
on existing production objects.
- Yeah, exactly.
And if we then also take a look a little bit deeper into that,
we can also see if you don't do that
and you so-called overload your object type
with multiple entities,
we come back into this Got object anti-pattern.
And where suddenly we had an equipment
and it represents a piece of equipment,
and then the more use cases,
the more you extend the ontology,
and then add information to an individual object,
we get this overloaded big object type then at some point.
And here we can, it ties back to our first principle
to think about the main driven design here again,
to really keep everything focused and easily understandable.
And links and interfaces help you with that a lot.
- Yeah, I mean, it's funny 'cause a lot of these principles
are very similar to object oriented principles, right?
So, you know, best software engineering.
So this is really like,
there's an amalgamation here where I see kind of
the dimensional data warehousing stuff.
I see object oriented.
And really, I think that ontology driven design principles
are kind of in the middle here
where I'm trying to not only design the data
and structure of how the real world works,
but I'm also having to design the methods and classes
of what I'm trying to go do in my objects
around actions and other components
and then make it reusable and sustainable across them.
So it is really this kind of middle ground
between object oriented and data warehousing
that we hit with the ontology driven design.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, all right.
So this really like helps me think through
how I'm building the object types, the interfaces,
when to break things apart, when to reuse.
I think it's very common.
We see where it's like the God object type is a funny one.
I laugh about that 'cause I've seen that so often
where it's just I'm piling new stuff in
'cause it's the easiest way to get something in
and then it becomes unsustainable very, very quickly.
So cool.
- Yes.
- All right.
So the last design principle, what is it?
- All right.
So the last one, that's a composition of deep hierarchies.
And maybe quickly deep hierarchies,
it could be multiple different object types
that are linked to each other, but in reality,
I kind of this parent-child relationship
that's on a very long chain.
And so that could be, for example, here,
we have here an endographic and object type arena,
office building and restaurant.
And above that could be a building entity
and above that could be other entities
in kind of this parent-child chain.
And rather than having this long chain
and then in reality needing to traverse a lot of links.
And if you wanna make changes,
you probably at some point need to make changes
to the whole chain and we'll look a little bit deeper
into an example there,
but you want to use interfaces here.
And let's say you have your different building object types
and you wanna be able to schedule that kind of building.
And the behavior can be a little bit different
depending on the building.
So if we look at an arena,
it's maybe you wanna schedule it for events.
And that's something that needs to be scheduled
for a day or two.
And compared to an office building,
which can also be scheduled,
but maybe on the lease period for a longer amount of time.
And all of these different entities,
they share different properties.
And so, but fundamentally they can inherit
the same behavior and the interface allows you to do that.
And you don't need too many different actions to do that.
Yeah.
And so, yeah.
- As I say, so this kind of also makes me think
about just like our build materials,
like something we do all the time in manufacturing space too,
is like, should I like actually explicitly lay out
the build materials and the hierarchies of like,
to produce this product,
here's all the hierarchy of things in my bomb tree
that I essentially need to build out.
Or should I have an object that describes that,
that allows me to actually explode that kind of bomb out
and use it across my, you know, in a non-predefined way.
So like that composition piece makes a lot of sense
for, you know, predefined deep hierarchies
that I have that are hard to manage updates
and like use over time.
So I think that starting to make sense to me
as you're describing this is like,
if I try to predefined a hierarchy,
like it's going to be out of date the second I publish it.
And these composition and how I actually build out
these object types allowed me to actually be
more flexible over time.
- Yeah, yeah, that's exactly it.
And I think here for the composition over the hierarchies,
a very simple and good example that we see here is
all of these different building types
that are in reality probably use differently.
Share, address and square footage, for example,
has an example with the building interface.
And that interface allows us to use actions on all three.
And we don't need to have specific actions
for all these three individual object types.
We just need to have one that works with that interface.
- Yeah, no, that's very cool.
I think that's the like, how do I govern and own this over time
means I need to really take these into principle.
'Cause I mean, man, if you had separate actions
and the sprawl of that, we'll do it out of control
pretty quick, which I think is what people normally see
in kind of the enterprise space.
- Absolutely.
And then if we look a little bit deeper into that,
we can also talk a little bit about the anti-patterns
that we have in that area for the composition
of our hierarchies.
And here in this example, okay, here we actually see this chain,
this parent-child relationship chain,
and it could start with an item and the physical asset
that goes into a building, then a schedulable building.
And then ultimately we are at the object type, the arena.
And what we see here as a one anti-pattern
is what we call the misnomer.
So a physical asset or an item that's just reading that,
I don't really know what it is.
And an asset can be anything, it can be equipment,
it can be inventory, or it could be a building.
So we wanna have good naming conventions here.
And actually in my opinion, the misnomer
is one of the worst anti-patterns
because people working with it get a wrong understanding
and need to gather a lot of information from other colleagues
in order to work with the object types.
And on top of that, when we think about
agent workflows and agents working with these object types,
if the naming conventions are bad
and descriptions are missing for properties
or for the object types, then agents
don't have an understanding and make worse decisions.
So building a nice agent on top of object types,
giving or helping building inside of the platform.
For example, with our AIFDE, these descriptions
and naming everything right helps a lot in the production
and gives the right context,
which is one of the big ontology differentiators.
Yeah, I think especially when we talk about LMs
plus ontology is really where the magic is,
how do I represent the real world how it actually operates?
Because these LMs were not trained on your enterprises' data.
And so us representing the context
about how things are actually operating is super important
so that they can reason across the defective reverse.
I've created these pseudo-system hierarchy languages
so that a reporting structure can work
that I can drill down in is not actually how
the real world works, right?
And it's actually more convoluted.
And so actually that will create a harder time
for both humans and agents to get to it,
to the right answer versus if I have a properly composed
like composition of hierarchies and relationships,
then I can get to those answers and have agents understand
and actually navigate the ontology,
which is really the useful part is like,
how do I make sure I ground the LM and the agent in the truth?
Well, I need to represent the truth in the best way.
And that's what I think we're talking about here.
Yeah, exactly.
Very cool.
So we've got four different design patterns.
We've got a bunch of anti-patterns,
a bunch of kind of examples of what we're doing here.
We've got some new docs.
We just updated out on the website
for everyone to go see as well
so we can put a link to those out there.
And I'll probably also put a link
to our ontology explainer out.
But if you notice, thank you for joining me today.
This is awesome.
I think this will be super helpful for everyone
that asks, how do I model ontology?
How do I govern it, right?
Here are just some primers for people to get started.
No problem.
It's great to talk about that.
And the documentation is really great around that
and helps a lot with understanding these.
Oh, it's a lot of examples in there.
Oh, great.
Yes, that will be good for everybody.
All right.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
