(indistinct chatter)
- You're new?
- New.
- New?
- Here we go.
- Here we go.
Expanding.
Okay, well, there's probably,
I never know where to start,
but since I just start with the more intellectual,
slightly boring thing.
I don't think anyone was here
for the inception of PG.
But in any case, when we get PG,
we were not only, I mean, still half the world
where they like it or not,
just stuck on PG.
You have to get rid of it.
You're gonna have to get rid of data protection.
Still the only product that actually can fight terror
and protect your underlying data or protects the liberties,
which is why it's still entrenched.
But the PG product was not just technically 10 years ahead
of what, and by the way,
it's worth mentioning,
ontology came from PG because,
and so did FDS because we couldn't actually
get the NLP stuff to work.
You had to extend it beyond what we could do with FDS.
FDS famously stolen from, you know,
like my experience sitting in the French cafes
wondering why the food is so good.
And, and then we had to have like some way
of enriching the knowledge of the underlying system.
Ontology came to be good.
But there was also a way in which the frame was
a decade ahead,
at least of what customers understood.
So there were really different parts about it.
It was like, we were building this thing,
both again, a product, but also an intellectual movement.
A movement that, you know,
I always would explain it as piggyoing
in the sense that we brought two opposite
and pose things together.
And in German, you had this term,
alpha-dism, which means the contradiction disappears.
And the contradiction disappears
by putting data protection and anti-terror
in a different frame where they're actually doing similar
things, meaning augmenting the value of life.
What is life?
It's being alive and having rights.
So think, how are we gonna think of the European version,
data protection, the American version,
first, fourth, second, and then maybe.
And that's actually the advance.
By the way, it also is very disconcerting
to people who are anti-aligned
with doing one or the other.
So typically you have these movements,
you know, you have caught as a caricature.
It's not honestly, in 20 years experience,
I can tell you, when the doors close,
none of the caricatures are true.
I mean, very far left-wing people would tell me
they don't care about civil liberties.
I mean, pretty far right-wing people would say,
I only care about civil liberties.
But the thing is, it is the belief of this company
that if you allow either of those balls
to exist in the extreme, they undermine
not only their interests at local interests,
but actually the interests that they say they advocate.
So the person who only cares about killing terrorists
wants to live in a world that's not worth defending.
The people that only care about civil liberties
end up facilitating the people being in charge
are actually very far right or left
and don't care about civil liberties.
And it's just pre-programmed.
But in any case, we've had many in and micro iterations
of this, where we intellectually had AIP, ontology, FDEs,
Foundry, Maven, to South Sylestric Senkaya, Apollo,
he's in the background, but no one really understands
what it's about.
So it's hard to make that intellectual movement now.
It actually is going to power some of the stuff
we're doing in the US space that's
more sensitive on training models.
So it may end up with a different frame
and become quite big, even bigger than it is now.
But the sovereignty, I think, it's basically
the same place we were in PG, except for--
instead of it being the Intel, literally just Intel,
and some special operations, it's the GDP of the US
and other people who will follow.
And it's so-- but then the technical thing of like,
well, how do you move ontology north to do actual fine tuning?
How do we make sure the SAC actually works,
which means, in this case, working quite closely
with our partners?
That part is going to be difficult, inspiring,
interesting, charismatic.
It's already changing recruitment, the value of the business
to us, what we're fighting for.
But there's also this intellectual piece.
The reason why the Sargon thing, like,
set off a revolution is because you actually
do need to reframe how these things work.
And every single customer, just like in the Intel space,
they didn't know they needed to reframe away
from either civil liberties or anti-terror.
But they knew it.
They felt it.
If you're sitting at an Intel service,
we're just hearing from all the stuff we're doing in France.
Or any of these other services, you're there
because you believe in a better society.
You're mostly not there.
You're not actually the caricature of people believe.
You needed both.
And you needed both to actually get society to adopt.
And society includes people, like everyone in this room,
meaning most people don't want to be in one of the other movements.
They want to be in a society that works better.
So on the Sargon TV piece, literally any enterprise.
Of course, the primary focus you see this working already
is the USG.
But I get with every enterprise that we
deal with, good, bad, dysfunctional, great,
ones we like, ones we're about to love.
Ones we don't-- where the loving isn't there at all.
And in fact, I get sent to all the things
you guys don't want to deal with.
Like, you know, there's like-- I mean, we famously--
we, by the way, have clients here.
So I know you could now see that if the internal external stuff,
it's just as crazy.
But I got-- I mean, I famously have
to explain to people, yeah, I know the IT person.
I know they taught music.
I know it's your cousin.
I know that's rare importance to you.
And it's not working.
Yeah.
So I deal with all that as well.
They all sense every single one.
Why was I paying-- why am I paying for tokens
that lead to this weird kind of slop
that only make the least productive people happy?
And as simultaneously, migrate the value of my business
to a third party.
And here, it's not fair.
But wildly unlikable third party.
By the way, not unlikable to me.
I've spent a lot of time--
mostly their aviatario.
I spend a lot of time with Dario.
He's not the caricature that many people,
most Americans believe.
But there is a problem that they are actually
unwilling to respond to any questions about how do you
build the models without ripping off someone's IP
and migrating their alpha to your model
and then competing against them.
And they do this over and over.
So the clients really feel this.
So then the challenge for our company
is twofold, just like PG.
It's really much more-- we have not had this vibe.
With Foundry, it was like a very important for most people
back in top of technology that was hard to sell,
but crucial to a business.
Ontology, AIP, had been more charismatic.
But it's been-- it wasn't a global movement.
This is a global movement.
And so the hard part about talking to customers
is it's a global movement that they understand is needed.
It's a global movement that we are the leaders of without doubt.
We're going to stay in the leaders also because just like
with PG, we are fully aligned with the customers.
We actually want the customers to succeed.
We actually get paid.
We are the only company I know of,
and definitely the only company at scale,
that actually is paid as a derivative of value creation
for the enterprises we work with and serve.
We do not have any other way of actually getting paid.
Every other company wants to outsource the risk of failure
to the client because they know it's going to fail.
Because to succeed, you would need a full stack from compute
all the way up now to model training.
And you'd have to absorb the risk of that not working,
which means having some kind of business
intuition about what the value is to the customer.
A willingness to say, no, FDEs that
aren't just masturbating and selling tokens, you know?
It's like, yeah, it's like that's
what these people like those are actually doing.
They sell tokens, they have FDEs, that some of them
aren't expoundarians, they're just selling tokens.
Just like some of you guys had a social like in high school
that was virtual, except for your really hard client.
Yeah, and so that's what's actually going on.
And the clients are tired of that.
You do that in your own time.
That's their basic view.
Don't show up at my company and do that.
While my creating the value of the enterprise
to your company and being very unlikable
and leading to a wealth tax, you know?
It's like, hey, remember, it's interesting.
The link caused by some of this is not fair.
But there's a societal view that the labs
are leading to a wealth tax.
Every single one of our clients is going to pay a wealth tax.
And while you guys may not have thought the impact of that,
it does not help the poor.
It only punishes them almost rich,
because basically you end up paying 5% of your net worth.
And then the index fund where you have the rest
of your worth collapsed.
Anyways, they're angry about this.
We're not feeding that anger, but we are providing--
it is the reason why they are listening.
And what they want is, very simply,
we are building a stack that is fully aligned with you
capturing and maintaining the health of your business.
And every single tech decision we are making
is aligned with that.
And that's basically what you have to tell them.
Outside version is also the way we
have to orient the whole business internally.
Recruitment, rebuilding commercial,
rebuilding of, rebuilding decisions
who we partner with, how do we partner?
And it is a revolution, just like these other revolutions
we've been part of, except for much larger,
where we actually are going to define how to talk about it.
The reason it's hard to talk about it is no one's
talked about it before.
Nobody's talking about it.
And then we are in this unique position.
I mean, the venture capitalists have these weird things
where they've taken on billions of dollars.
And they're actually only interested in scale businesses.
And they call startups, fail ups, fail downs,
because they don't have scale.
And this is a revolution where you need scale,
and you need product, and you need to know how to do it.
And there's no time to start a new business.
By the time you start a new business,
we have educated the market about their own interests.
The reason why PG and Maven especially
are so charismatic and foundry actually work.
And ontology and AIP work, but not in scale.
This is going to work, as we plausibly can say,
we are actually working in your interests.
And in this case, we're like, yeah,
and we're going to figure out how to explain this
to the whole world, including to ourselves first.
And then we have a whole propaganda department working
on this, obviously powered by two people who look 12.
But this is the sounds here you think?
You know, what can we do?
In fact, the person who wrote the celebrity document,
he's British, I feel like can be in public.
But his primary comment, he's pretty reasonably technical.
I normally say there's very technical pounders,
and I guess he could be like a technical echo.
But he's British, so he hasn't learned how to write
English as poorly as we have.
So that's the primary comment.
So we are going to just completely own this.
But the way of explaining and the way of doing it
is completely novel to everyone.
And that's going to mean a lot of like, hey, I'm not sure.
I understand the actual way to answer this correctly.
That's OK.
The way to answer every question is we are building,
and that we are building a stack where you will maintain
the means of your own production.
You own the means of production.
We participate because you succeed.
And we're going to do this.
Now we're in the business.
We have to capture this revolution.
So we have to expand our filter.
We have to be disciplined, look, the revolution.
I'm wildly-- I feel like, honestly, I am the most pro.
I say this in private and someone in private.
But I really believe, of all partial Europeans that
are recently important, I am the most pro-European who
actually says things that could help Europe.
I am wildly pro-European.
I actually conspired to get this company
to be wildly disproportionately European, which it is.
And look at this office.
We have to recognize the revolution
is happening here in America.
And we will eventually-- people will copy it because they
have to, honestly, especially, hopefully in Europe.
Because the decisions they're making are only
in the interest of hurting Europe.
But we are in the business of helping our clients,
and helping our partners.
So we can't really do anything about that.
But disproportionately here, maybe not exclusively,
obviously, we're going to help our government clients ally
to all over the world do similar things.
But getting-- we should be able to fully, fully take over
this movement for the sake of the movement, not even primarily
for the sake of ourselves.
Because the way our business works
is aligned with the tech and our clients.
And then roll out, which means we're going to up-recruiting.
We're going to have-- we're building partnerships
with many people, and maybe, obviously, the most prominent.
But others that we otherwise would not have been able to build.
And we're going to rebuild the tech stack around,
how do we actually do this more efficiently, quicker.
And we're going to work through talking to clients
and learn from them what do they understand.
That's also hard.
Your building revolution, it's not just what we understand.
It's what's understandable to them.
And that's going to be-- with PGA,
it's a number of years before people understood.
But I'll tell you what they understood immediately.
This was the product they wanted.
And I think we're going to have very similar--
we already have very similar growth.
But I think that's going to be very exciting.
And the other thing I've learned by doing this
for a long time is it's kind of obvious.
But when you have the momentum, you just
have to fight to capture all of it.
But anyone who's been here for a couple of years
has seen us next.
We did not have noticed that I said you have to be all noticed.
We all noticed.
Anyways, so with that, I'll turn it over to others.
But yeah, this is going to be a lot of fun.
Very harrowing.
It's nice to have a harrowing challenge.
And it's hyperbolic.
But I can tell you, as tall as we are every day of the week,
and two times on Wednesday, there is no other institution
that's going to do this.
That is 100% sure.
And it's not because we're so perfect.
It's because we built this thing that is just very aligned
with this.
And you just can't rebuild it.
It's like, it's super weird.
It's like, I don't understand exactly why you can't rebuild it.
But I am certain you can't.
And we're just going to roll out there.
So with that, I hope you guys have as much fun
as I'm having currently.
And take care.
