Hi everyone, thanks for being here today. Pretty cool talks that we just saw orchestrator for our
durability layer for agents and what I want to do in this talk is give an update on where we're
going with agents and a preview of what's coming. So we've learned from you and others in the field
and we're building a full agent stack to solve the real problems we've seen when making agents
in production. The stack is built on top of the ontology stack that we know and love.
So you'll see the lower layers in this talk and some teasers of what's to come.
So you just saw orchestrator for durability for our agent loops and I'm going to talk about
our new agent engine and our new agent SDK. Agent engine is the API and runtime layer that hosts
and runs our agent primitives and the agent SDK helps you easily build agents that run on top.
Before we go into the agent engine and agent SDK, I want to take a step back and talk about
the lessons that we learned that led to this agent stack. John talked about lessons we learned
at the infrastructure layer but I want to talk about lessons we learned at the agent design layer.
One of the big lessons we've learned is that agents aren't one shape. We've built task agents,
co-pilots, we've built simple agents, autonomous agents, interactive agents,
AIFD, AIP analysts, we've built agents that aren't interactive at all in just about everything
in between. And we learned that any framework needs to handle providing developers ways to build
all of these agents. We've also learned that agents act with the world and vice versa.
And the real world is asynchronous. And so in the real world, a reply isn't just when I spin up
my laptop. An agent could be waiting on a nurse, a lab result, a build system, each of which could
take a week or more to come back. And the world operates concurrently. A user could be working
with an agent while an email comes in or two emails come in at once. You have race conditions.
And so the real world starts to look much more like a distributed system, many agents and many
humans. And every participant in the system needs a different view. The nurse responding to the
patient discharge, the hospital admin making sure patient discharges have been done correctly for
the day, maybe another model providing a feedback loop on the agent response chain. You can't build
trust without properly rendering the agent to each participant involved. So let's take an example
that Ankit mentioned earlier. And I want to go into more detail about one of the
functionalities we've built within AIFD. This is the build functionality within AIFD. And so as a
user, I have the ability to spin up, build an AIFD, build our long-running jobs. They have a status
associated with them as such. So they can be started running, canceled, failed. But because
they're long-running jobs, they can take minutes or hours. So when I'm in an AIFD, I want the ability
to be able to skip the results of my build and let the session continue. But when those results
come in, I want to be updated that they've come in and I want my agent to properly respond to those
results. But if another user canceled the build in a different UI, then my agent should also reflect
those updates. And these are just some of the requirements of this functionality. And as Ankit
showed before, what this actually looks like is more of a state machine. And this is a simplified
version where we have states that transition to other states and rich human-in-the-loop interactions.
And so you can see as we start to stress test our agents against the requirements in the real
world, it looks much harder to solve our problems with a simple while loop wrapping simple tool calls.
Because what we actually have is agents that need to be multiplayer, they need to handle race
conditions and incoming signals, and they have to have maximal flexibility and be renderable to all
participants. This is not an easy list. And you may think that I'm laying on the requirements here,
taking a bit of a strategy credit because this is what we've built. But I'd argue that you've
seen this before. In Cloud Code, if the terminal dies while the agent is working, you lose all
your sub-agents work. So this might be slightly annoying or costly in Cloud Code, but in a different
context, it can have mission-critical implications. On the battlefield, you need to know you're doing
the right thing. And so in the environments and stakes we operate at, we have to be able to provide
these requirements to our agents. And so we've built our agents stack to solve the problems
we've seen in the field. I want to go into a demo to show actually how this looks in practice,
because I think that's the best way to actually see what we've built here.
So I'm going to be building on John's example of discharging patients. So our agent has the ability
to discharge patients. And I'm going to be showing the agent SDK. So the agent SDK makes it extremely
simple to define complex agents. This is using the SDK, which is actually available here as a beta
at DevCon. And we have a Canary session later. So I'm very excited to see what you all build.
And so the agent SDK makes a simple thing simple. I can define a model, system prompt.
In this agent, I have three tools associated with it, looking at patients, getting their lab results,
and then discharging the patient. Let's look at the discharge patient tool. Also quite simple.
Name, description, input schema, and then an async execute function. And this calls our discharge
patient helper, which actually discharges the patient, and then tells the model that we've
discharged the patient. Under the hood, the patients are ontology objects, and this is just
running an action to turn a Boolean field on the patient object from is discharge false to true.
This is simplified for the purpose of this DevCon demo. You can imagine in the real world,
there's a lot more complexity. And we're actually going to add some of that complexity
here in a second. But I want to start by just running this agent and showing what it looks like.
So I've got my discharge patient portal here, and I'll take my first patient, Aisha Patel,
and I'll determine her discharge status by running my agent. So we can see we have a list of system
prompt user messages, assistant messages, these are actually typed as context items. I'll get back
to that in a second here of why that's important. But if I scroll down, we have the patient's been
discharged successfully, and we've actually executed the tool call discharge patient. And if we go
up, we see that our patient's been discharged by discharge agent. And so this is great. Our
agent runs, but there's a lot that's missing in this agent. One thing, this UI is terrible. We
probably want a better UI on top of this agent. And we'd also want a nurse approving the agent's
results. We don't want the agent just charging patients. Nobody signed off on that. And to render
the agent to the nurse, we also need to be able to render in a format that is valuable for the
nurse to be able to see the results that might be relevant to the agent's decision. And also,
we need to make sure that our agent responds to any incoming decision or data coming in. So
if new lab results come in, our agent needs to be able to reflect upon that and update its decision.
So you can see the list of requirements starts to expand as we start to stress test our agents
against the real world. And so what I want to do is actually talk through how we can easily add on
a few lines of code to make our agent handle this type of complexity.
Before we do that, though, I want to talk about the primitives that the agent engine offers because
I think it's important to understand those, to understand how we can build the requirements into
this agent. So the agent engine is built, is our lower layer, and it provides the APIs for
building flexible agent. If we can go back to the slides, great. So you saw how orchestrator
provided durability. On top of orchestrator, we built agent engine, which handles our agent
primitives, and then the agent SCK on top, which makes it extremely easy to define agents, which
you just saw here. You can start high with the code I showed, but you can always escape hatch
down to build in on top of the agent engine API layer. So what makes the SCK and APIs powerful is
they'll build on these three primitives, context items, events, and effects. So a session, an agent
session is composed of context items. These are strongly typed data defined by you, the developer
of the agent. Context items mutate through events, and they're actually, they hold their own state,
their own strongly typed state. Events return effects, which can acynchronously run and dispatch
new events. So it's how the agent gets connected to the outside world. If we put these three primitives
together, what we actually have is an agent loop. New events come into your agent, and these go into
the event queue. Events are processed through handlers that you define. Those handlers can
return mutations and effects. Mutations update state, both context item state and session state,
effects are asynchronous. So they reach out to the real world, like a model provider API,
and they come back as more dispatched events. And by stitching these three primitives together,
we actually get an extremely powerful agent loop that under the hood is a distributed state machine.
So let's go back to the demo, and let's fix our agent here.
Okay, so I've built a second agent, this patient discharge approval agent. This looks
quite similar to the agent we just saw. It has a model and system prompt, but it also has
some context items that I mentioned before, some custom context items, and some event handlers
for those context items, and the same three tools I have before. So let's start by looking
at our discharge patient tool, because this is the tool we actually want to update and
require in our approval now. So it looks quite similar to how we had it before, but instead of
returning just the string literal and executing the discharge patient within the actual tool,
we return this pending discharge context item. If we jump into this context item,
this holds strongly typed state. So the state schema that I have is both the patient ID and
this approval status. It can be pending approved, denied, and invalidated, and when I create this
context item, it gets created in the pending state. So this context item mutates its own state
through events, and these are events that I'm writing in code, and so I can submit a discharge
approval event, and this event has an approval state associated with it, and I update the context
item state through returning a mutation, which is approved or denied. And you'll see that if I've
approved the -- if the nurse has approved the discharge decision, and so I have this event
coming in with the approval status as approved, we actually then return an effect, which is this
performed discharge effect. And that effect is handled here, where we call the same discharge
patient helper, which calls the action in the ontology. And so what we've actually done is we've
moved the discharge patient effect from the tool call into this context item state, which allows us
to durably hold this pending state in our agent. I want to show what that actually looks like by
running a new version of this agent, and if we run this agent, we've also built a UI on top of
these -- on top of the context items, so it doesn't look as bad as it looked before -- oh, sorry,
ran it on Aisha, ran it on David Park. And we see the lab results, the lab results look good, there's
no thing concerning, and so our agent says that we should discharge this patient. I also want to
show that if I refresh this page, that discharge approval state stays there. So we have this pending,
it's durable, and if we look at the raw results, which we saw before, this is actually held in the
agent session as this pending discharge context item, which we saw in the code. And to show how
powerful context items are, it actually lets us render our front end to the nurse in the way
that you see here, where the lab results are shown in a user-friendly way. Because if I look at the
lab results in the agent session, instead of before, which is just printing them to the LLM,
I now have them as strongly typed state, so I can render them properly on the front end,
instead of just reg X parsing them on the front end. And you can see in the demo one,
if we go to Aisha, her lab results are stored as basically a blob. So the last thing I want to
show is one of the additional requirements that we had, which is our agent needs to be able to
handle incoming data. So if a new lab results comes in, my agent needs to be able to update to
reflect that new data. And so I'll go to our lab approval UI, or sorry lab console UI, and I'll
upload a new lab result for David. And this is a COVID positive test result. You can see my hands
aren't on the keys, my agents on the left, the lab results on the right, pay attention to the
agent state. And I intentionally made this a long PDF to OCR, so that we'd have suspense.
Maybe too long. Okay, there we go. Our lab result came in, our patient reassessed,
and said this lab result is concerning this patient has COVID, we should not discharge this patient.
How did that actually happen in the agent? Well, what we did is when we uploaded the lab result
in our lab console UI, we sent an event to this agent. We sent a new lab result event.
This came in to our agent as an event that I've typed here. That submit approval, sorry, new lab
result event came in, got handled through our agent handler, which then dispatched an invalidate
discharge event, and that got handled in our context item state to set the context item state
to invalidate it, which rendered to our LLM that the lab, their discharge decision is stale,
and you need to reassess. And that reran the agent loop, the LLM got more results and decided not to
discharge the patient. So it wasn't that many lines of code in order to add the complexity
that we actually require for an agent like this that's actually discharging patients.
So to recap, what I showed here today was the lower levels of our agent stack. We have an
agent SDK that makes it extremely easy to define complex agents, and we've also expressed low-level
primitives with the agent engine to build agents of any shape. All agents built on the SDK run on
top of orchestrator, our durable infrastructure layer, so you can get all the benefits that John
mentioned. You'll be able to use a beta version of the agent SDK at DevCon, and we have a canary
session walking through how to get started. I'm really excited to see what you guys built.
But as I said at the start, this is just the beginning of the agent stack. The primitives
powering our pro-code agent SDK are coming to our new low-code agent builder. This will make
it extremely easy for anyone in your organization to define complex agents.
And on top of that, we also have a new application called agent manager for monitoring and governing
your agents. Any agent published in this stack, both pro and low-code, will show up in agent
manager. This app will be your common pane of glass across the agents in your enterprise.
And with that, I'd like to hand it back over to Ankit to talk through how we're adding observability
into every layer of the stack.
