(upbeat music)
- Hi, I'm Chad Wilquist.
I'm an architect at Pounds here.
Today I've got Mike who leads one of our internal teams
that drives boundary use inside of Pounds here.
Thanks for joining me Mike.
- Thanks Chad, excited to be here.
- So we've got a fun topic.
This is something we hear a lot about with MCP.
We've got the platform MCP, Ontology MCP, all this use.
And I think no one better to describe
kind of some really cool use cases of this
than you and how we're doing it.
So maybe just can give a riff on what your take is
on like specifically like the Ontology MCP
and then we can get into how we're using it.
- Yeah, definitely.
Yeah, so as you mentioned, I've been focusing
on our internal use of Foundry for quite a while here
at Palantir and we've built at this point
a pretty large robust ontology that covers.
Basically all of our connected internal systems
and Foundry itself has become the source system
for a lot of our workflows here.
So we have a pretty good baseline to work from.
We've got a large set of internal apps
that people have built in workshop and custom apps
and OSDK and all kinds of other things going on.
And in the last couple of years,
obviously we've onboarded several AI tools
and in addition to everything that we've
don't be doing in Foundry.
So this year we rolled out OMCP,
basically the Ontology MCP server
to connect all of those workflows that were happening
in our AI tools with our internal Foundry instance.
And so far it's been really valuable.
We have basically started using it
for a bunch of internal use cases.
The one that I'm gonna talk about today
is more on the internal planning side
and some of the stuff we're gonna cover
is basically how you set it up,
a little bit about how it works generally
and some of the benefits of it.
And then I'll actually run through
what planning looks like notionally internally here.
So we do this three times a year.
And yeah, it's been made a lot easier with the OMCP.
>> Yeah, I think it's cool 'cause like we don't,
we talk about how we help customers
and how we want to ontologize their business.
It's like we have an ontologized
and we build our entire business and ontology.
So kind of this is the north star of like,
if you have everything ontologized in your business,
these are the cool things.
You can go do it like have an MCP server
for your entire business.
So I think it's pretty cool to get into it.
So all right, let's just jump into the demo
and show some cool stuff here.
>> Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, I mean, one of the big benefits here is that,
I mean, as we've explored with our sort of
other internal AI tools,
it's very easy to get into this kind of nest
of MCP servers and individual connections to things
and going, you know, you're going to Slack,
you're going to this and that and it gets,
it's very sort of bespoke per user.
A lot of people don't engage with it at all.
And what OMCP is letting us do is just have them connect
to one thing, all the data they need is already there.
It's already modeled, they can just start making use of it
and they can start writing back to it as well.
So what I'll start with here.
>> I want that threat real quick though.
Like I think what you're saying here is important
because instead of having an MCP server
for every different kind of system,
by modeling all of that into the ontology
and then giving them one MCP server,
that means I not just encode the system pieces,
but the actual business processes across those systems
and how they interact.
So they're much more useful.
So like, I think really the thought here is,
one MCP server model and the business process backed
by systems rather than 20 different MCP servers
on each system is far more effective for the end users
because of that business process modeling on top of it.
>> Yeah, exactly.
I think where you feel at the most is the way
that you model all the interconnections
between different object types.
So if you have five different MCP servers
and you just throw your AI tool of choice at it
and say like, de-conflict all these things, find patterns.
It's going to do it a little differently every time.
It's going to be pretty error prone.
It's going to take a lot of time.
It's going to burn a lot of tokens.
But having it all modeled in the MCP is let us say like,
get a lot closer to kind of one-shotting these analyses,
getting data back in a way that it can actually work with
and you end up with some pretty nice output at the end of it.
>> All right, cool, let's get into it.
>> All right, great.
Yeah, so to start, let's talk about how we set this thing up.
As someone that's sort of administrating this,
it's really exciting and easy for me.
Basically, all this happens out of a Foundry Dev console.
This is the same place that you would go
if you were building like a custom OSDK app
or something like that.
So we have a demo one here.
The first step is you have your ontology SDK.
This is where you're actually going to define
what objects you want to make available to your MCP server.
So you can, and we do use this in a couple of different ways.
You can either go for breadth
and you just add sort of everything you've gotten here,
or you can do more use case specific ones
and if you want it to have more
like very targeted use case MCP servers.
For this case, we tend to bias more towards the broad ones
and it does a good job of actually
like navigating all those objects.
So in this case, we have, as I mentioned,
we're sort of focusing on planning here.
So this is sort of a minimized version
of the ontology that we have internally.
We've got a few object types to sort of represent the ore.
We've got developers, we have some teams in here.
We have some objects that represent our actual plans.
So we have planned objects, objectives, key results.
And then we have some of our source systems.
So we've got like chat messages, support tickets,
and then a few things from like GitHub pull requests,
GitHub issues, these are, you know,
a subset of the things we would use in the real world,
but they're pretty representative of the type of data
that we would rely on if we were trying to retrospect
on how a team was doing or start a plan
or anything like that.
>> But I think the other piece here you kind of briefly hit on
was like it's not just the data though.
It's like the data, the logic, the actions,
the connections between them, the security.
You get all of that, as long as it's not just a data
where I can do reg with MCP.
This is like a full fledged operational component
where like we can actually take actions
and we can navigate across links
and we can do all sorts of things.
>> Yep, yeah, no exactly.
Yeah, you can kind of see a sense,
get a sense of what all the links are here.
And then at the bottom here is all the action types
that have made available.
So you can do all kinds of things with this one.
We can create issues in the real world.
This would actually like go right back to the source systems
if they were external ones here.
And then obviously all of the like planning stuff
or editing and creating your objectives
and key results, all that's here too.
And these are just made available as basically tools
in the like MCP tool chain for our AI agent.
Cool, so once you have your objects loaded in,
it's pretty straightforward.
There is another MCP tab over here
and you just turn it on and you have an MCP server.
So the kind of cool thing that I just wanted to point out here
is this is pretty much agnostic to whatever tools
that you use.
I'm gonna show an example with clod code inside VS code.
Plug in there and then also codecs and terminal
but this can and has been used with clod desktop,
with Gemini, with co-pilot.
All those things are possible
and it really doesn't matter.
The point is you're connecting one thing to all of those
and everyone's sort of speaking the same language.
Yeah, I recently had hooked up co-pilot on top of owns
to be in the customer loved it
that like all of a sudden their enterprise data
was making sense inside a co-pilot form.
So like it's pretty cool to be able to take this approach
of this business process behind it
and enable any of these tools that you have
across your enterprise.
So now like I can open up Word
and I have the ontology back stuff
as I'm writing documents or power points
or other things that people are doing in their enterprise.
So I think it's cool to be able to meet them where they are.
And I think that's the goal behind this
is to bring the power of the ontology
to where people are working already.
Right, yeah, exactly.
And I have to say, the first time I used this,
and I think the first time I used it was in flawed code
and it just felt kind of magical.
You like hook it up and you just start asking these
like very generalized questions
and it comes back with really, really useful stuff.
And when your workflow is already in there,
you're editing code, you're doing actual development,
it's really pretty valuable to be able to have
all this stuff sort of in there with you.
It's a really like nice enriched workflow
where we've been getting a lot of good usage out of it.
A lot of organic usage people,
people have really picked up this thing.
Great, so just to, I think that's basically
all that we've got in terms of setup here.
Maybe one other thing to note is that
everything that's coming through the MCP server,
the in your AI agent, client, whatever,
you're basically just offing to Foundry.
So you get like a scopes down token,
you have the access that your user has.
So you basically inherit all the access controls,
row, column based access controls, security markings.
That all is reflected in the OMCP server.
And then even cooler than that, this is exciting to me,
is if you have one of your AI tools,
maybe it's a cloud based one, maybe it's a third party one,
the level of trust that you have
in terms of the kind of data that it can store,
if that's lower than what you have in Foundry,
you can also do marking whitelisting.
So you could just let a subset of data out dynamically.
So you could say, anything that's marked as PII,
don't allow through the MCP server,
which has been really, really helpful for us.
>> Oh, so even, this is a,
I'm learning stuff right now too.
So we've got the feature where now,
like if I have access to this in Foundry, great,
but I don't want these external tools
'cause I don't have control over how they're going
to secure the data for PII, for example.
So even though Mike, you have access to it in Foundry,
I can only access that in Foundry in the secure enclave,
first I can't export it out to one of these tools.
Okay, that's pretty neat.
I see I learned something new today.
>> Yeah, it's very cool.
And it makes it so that you can actually like,
with some confidence, hook this up to tools that,
I think it would have been tough to justify
from like an info spec perspective before.
But then you can get 99% of the data
that people really need out there
and get yourself a little bit unstuck.
So that was a big deal for us when we got that in here.
>> That's awesome.
>> Yeah, cool.
So I think the next thing was just to maybe talk
a little bit more about what was going on
in the ontology here before we actually jump into
the AI tools.
I showed this a little bit in the OSDK tab above,
but we have this use case kind of mapped out here.
Basically the objects that we've got are broken down
into like organizational constructs, teams and developers.
We have our planning objects, so plans OKRs,
and then our like signal here.
GitHub issues, Slack messages support tickets.
So this is really common internally for us.
Like, you know, we have internal engineers and developers.
They're doing their actual work in code in GitHub.
They're committing code all day.
They're submitting PRs.
We're filing issues for things that need attention.
We all have internal like chat channels where we do support.
Very high volume, lots of stuff coming in there,
very hard to keep track of.
We also have a ticketing system.
So we have, you know, and in real life
there's more than this as well.
These are just some of the most common ways
that we're getting requests, signal, whatever.
And I'll show you a little bit about how sort of
we're going to use ONTP to manage all this stuff.
So when everyone requests features to me on X
and then they end up here in the ontology
and then we go build the feature that people want on X
and release it an hour later, I think the flow there is tight.
Yep, yeah, exactly, exactly.
And the thing that I think is really exciting
in this whole flow is, you know, when you're,
when you're integrating this into the place
that people are doing their day-to-day work,
you can go from synthesizing signal like just the torrent
of stuff coming in through Slack or whatever
into actual like issues that you file in GitHub,
actual code, you know, you can do that whole flow
sort of in one go here.
And it's really convenient.
I've been doing that a lot, a lot internally lately
and it's just such a more pleasant flow
than anything I'd done before.
And yeah, and I think the last thing here is that
I have added a few actions in here
that are sort of core to this workflow
and this is all the stuff for actually creating
and codifying your plan.
So right now we've been using Foundry
to do internal planning and actually a lot of product
planning for years at this point.
And it's a great use case.
It's really valuable to have everything stored
in like a really well-structured way on the ontology.
We have, you know, the OKRs are all really discoverable
why teams are making it easy to deconflict
and understand what other people are working on
and when they're delivering it.
But it's labor intensive to actually codify
all that stuff.
So I'll show a little bit about like,
this is a sort of simplified version
of what our internal planning app looks like.
But if you go into these, you can kind of see
it's nice for reading.
You can go in and look.
It's a workshop app, but you know, it looks fine enough.
It's easy to digest.
You can peruse through people's plans
and get a sense of what's going on.
If you want to add plans, it's form-based.
So, you know, you're adding OKRs one by one
to get that structure.
And historically, that's been fine,
but it's kind of painful and time-consuming.
And someone has to go in and do all that.
The nice thing with OMCP is you can just feed, you know,
an LLM, your sort of rough plan or just like, you know,
a text plan and it figures out all the objects for you.
It navigates all that and it submits all of it.
So it's taken what was like a valuable and useful
but time-consuming flow into something
that you basically don't think about anymore.
You just write the plan and it figures it out for you
and gets it all in here.
That's very slick.
Yeah, so that as one of the authors of our internal planning
app, the streamlining here has been very helpful for me
because I had to feel a lot of questions about it.
So cool.
So I think that's about the whole stage
before we get into actually looking
at what this thing can do.
Any other questions or anything before we move over
to VS Code here?
No, let's go see how it works.
I think that's really the key.
So we got some ideas on how these fit together,
but, you know, like, what can we do with it?
Yeah, for sure.
All right, so in this flow, I think
a really common thing to do as we're getting
into our seasonal planning, we do this three times a year.
The first step is usually some kind of retrospective, right?
So you want to know how did the last period go?
Did you accomplish your goals?
Did it line up with the actual, like,
support things that were coming in?
How are you doing on some key metrics?
This kind of stuff is a very labor-intensive to pull together.
This could easily take several days of someone's time
just to get all the chat data and, you know,
peruse issues and tickets and filter all that stuff.
So what we're doing here is we're basically using OMCP
to speed up this whole process.
So I have a simple code workspace up here.
In real life, we would have, you know,
this, you would probably integrate this
with whatever your actual repo is.
You see a lot more here.
For now, what I've done was I ran a retrospective
for our tech support team.
This is all notional data, but basically asked it
to take a look at all of our historical data,
from Slack, from tickets, from GitHub,
and run a retrospective for tech support.
So it comes, it came back with a markdown file.
I just wrote it locally for me so I can edit it
and do whatever I need to with it.
But you can see the kind of stuff that it comes up with
is like, it's actually really nice.
And if you don't like the format,
it's very easy to iterate on it.
And then it becomes very easy to go ahead
and do additional ones.
So, like, for me, as one of the leads of our org,
like, it's very common that as, you know,
everyone else is planning,
I'll wanna go through and do a little bit of my own homework.
So I could just say, like, okay, now show me
a similar retrospective for the network engineering team.
And it'll just cook for a while.
It'll start looking through all that additional data.
It knows what it pulled before,
which was basically, you know, an amalgamation of signal
from our plans and our support data.
And it's just gonna start doing that.
So I can keep writing these things.
And I think the spoilers that, like, after this is done,
you can then take that retrospective and say, like,
all right, this is great.
Take some of those learnings.
Look at the stuff that was in the plan last time.
Look at the stuff that came in from our support data,
common trends, and now make me a plan,
which is cool.
I think in the real world, obviously,
you have it make you a draft.
It's based, it's anchored in real life data.
And then you go and iterate on it.
We're gonna show sort of like a compressed version
of that here where I think we mostly one shot the plan,
which I don't wouldn't necessarily advise,
but we get pretty close.
So, yeah, so you can kind of see what it's doing here.
It's like, okay, we have a good format for reference.
It found the network engineering team,
found the lead of the network engineering team.
It's pulling up the objectives, key results,
GitHub issues.
And now it's basically just doing its analysis here.
So, in a minute, it'll come back with another markdown file
and it'll have an additional retrospective
for network engineering.
So, we'll let that cook for a little bit.
And while it's doing that,
I'll give a little bit of a spoiler for what's coming next.
There it is.
Okay, here we go.
Which is basically, we're gonna check Todd's work with.
- Yeah, I think like I can't understate the,
or I can't overstate, I mean, how cool it is to,
'cause our ticketing system is based in ontology
and then found reading something else.
All of these are actually like live system of records
for us that are actually coming together.
So, the fact that I've got our ontology mapping out
our ticketing process mapped into our product pieces,
mapped into all these things,
that's actually the ontology of how Palantir runs.
And now I can have these AI agents or components,
wherever I'm working, like this example in Cloud Code,
we'll look at others as well.
But like, how cool it is that I actually have all of that
in the live system that I can now interrogate,
build plans iterate over, like, it was just cool to me.
- Yeah, no, it's like, yeah, I'm like used to it at this point.
The first time I did this, I was actually blown away.
I was just asking it questions all day
about like, what's going on this team?
What's going on this team?
It was like a level of visibility
I just had never had before.
And this is just what I would do as sort of like a manager here.
Like, if I was on the network engineering team
and I saw this, I could go here and say like,
oh, it's like, we have like terraform issues.
It's like, you could literally paste this in
and just say like, go look at all of my config files,
like, actually help me fix this thing.
You know, and then, you know, you basically pick up
your normal Cloud Code workflow from there.
So it's really great for jumping off
and getting actual work done outside just planning.
So in this case, yeah, it came up with, you know,
it looked at the template, came up with a new version
for the network engineering team.
It's a good jumping off point for actually getting
a plan going.
So I could say like, okay, you know,
this is very interesting.
Make it into our T3 plan.
And it'll do the same kind of thing.
It'll come back and it'll draft up another,
another markdown output.
I'll show just an example of what that looks like.
So this is one that I had it pull together
a couple hours ago for tech support.
And this one, you know, it gives sources
of where it found things.
It sort of says what the general plan is based off
of what are the main themes.
And then it just gets right into OKRs.
Toggle it into a nice rendered mode.
So you can come and see like here's the,
here's the, you know, first objective stop IT automation
from failing silently.
So, you know, it does a pretty good job
of synthesizing these things.
And, you know, if I were the lead of this team,
I would read through this.
I would share it with the team.
I would iterate on a little bit.
Make sure that we were kind of all in sync
with the actual work.
Obviously it's, you know, it's,
we're still talking LLM's here.
It's never going to be perfect.
But like the amount of time that you save
from just trolling through all that information
and synthesizing it into something useful is like,
it's hard, it's hard to overstate.
- Well, I think now too, like the way that it did all that work.
So you can really focus on the strategy,
the real, the thinking part, right,
is what we don't want to push out to the LLM's.
It's really around, can it bring all the data together,
come up with kind of the basis point?
Now I can think strategically about it
instead of figuring out where do I find this thing?
And where is this piece, right?
I think that's really like allows us to prototype our plans
in this case, you know, as we go through
and kind of iterate on the product.
- I think it's very common to sit to have these feelings
about like this is the stuff that people were complaining about.
This is the stuff that was causing a lot of pain,
but having a real data back view
makes those conversations so much easier
and you can just get down to it.
- Yep.
- So cool.
All right, so from here, we'll just let,
let Claude keep drafting the network engineering one
in the background.
I'm going to pivot over to kind of my next step here,
which is we have a draft.
Again, in the real world, we iterate on it
with our team a little bit.
Something that I always find really helpful though,
both when doing, you know, like AI driven coding
and development, but also for written documents like this
is I'll have a different agent kind of check the work.
So all this is gone.
I'm gonna move over to my other window here
where I have codecs open.
So I've been doing some other planning work
in here with codecs and it has access to the same files
that Claude was writing.
So I could say, you know, let's take a look
at the draft plan and me some feedback.
Is it realistic?
Is it too ambitious?
And it'll take a look at it and sort of proofread the work.
And I've found that even when, you know,
the first draft looks pretty sane,
it actually comes back with really, really good feedback.
And usually--
- It has access to the file.
It has access to the ontology as well.
- Yep, yep, exactly.
And you can see it's doing all kinds of ontology calls here.
It's doing a whole bunch of stuff.
So it's, it does a good job of kind of fetching
the right information.
All right.
- So I think this is like,
so like the fact that I have one ontology,
I can use Claude code codecs,
co-pilot, I can use our AIFD,
you can do it in platform.
Like the goal is not one platform.
The goal is like, we meet you where you are
with the right intelligence and yep,
that's really the ontologies kind of play here
is bringing all that together
no matter what environment you're in.
- Yeah, exactly.
Now, there's an important point there,
which is that for people that have been doing a lot of AI
workflows that are watching this.
Like they'd probably say, this is nice,
but like you could automate a lot of this.
And I think that's exactly right.
And what I would, what I would do going forward from here
is use our learnings from going through this process manually
with a few different AI tools.
And I think the next step here would basically be
once we like that workflow,
we can use the other Foundry MCP preserve more
for building stuff or do it in Foundry and AIFD
and actually codify this whole workflow.
So like, we shouldn't in theory have to do any of this stuff.
Like once we've learned the most valuable version
of this process, it should just happen.
And it's pretty easy to go from prototyping here,
working through this manually with a few AI agents to,
we've now built this thing in Foundry.
It happens every couple of months automatically,
sends you a retrospective, you can go back and forward on it,
you give it a final draft, it publishes it for you,
you're done.
And then you can run further automations to say,
you know, the kind of deconfliction that I ran manually here,
it could do sort of like on a weekly basis, right?
Like you don't necessarily need to wait until you're doing
planning to get trends from your cat data
and support channels and things like that.
That should happen all the time.
So what we're using this increasingly for is
that discovery part.
So when you're off-roading and you need to do one off things,
this is like, it's tough to beat.
But obviously you wanna have some consistency
in how these things are done.
And this is just a great first step
to actually launch off into that
and like really build the workflow in Foundry.
So it's a nice play back and forth between tools
that people are used to, getting it back into platform,
iterating again.
It's been very like very useful for us.
Cool, so it looks like it finished here.
And it actually said this one was realistic.
I had a draft another one yesterday
and I said it was wildly unrealistic.
So this is actually, I guess we're getting better at it.
So from here, yeah.
Yes, so what do we do for each other?
Like as I get it, we can use different ones.
We can interact with ontology,
even across different agent coding tools.
Like, so now when we talk about codifying it
or like how do I write back or how do I make these plans?
Like what's the next step?
So I can do all my typos and flubs that I want
and I'll figure it out.
So from there, then, you know,
we are basically at the end of the planning workflow.
We say like, okay, we're good with it.
Let's actually publish this thing.
It's gonna make a bunch of OMCP calls
to all those actions that I showed earlier.
I found a T for the plan,
oh, Blonde's network engineering, okay, cool.
So there's no tech support T3 plan yet.
So let's go ahead and draft it up.
Okay, no clean.
Okay, all right.
So pull the markdown file for T3 and publish that.
All right, so need a little bit of supervision here,
but it will get there.
Cool. Cool.
So yeah, I mean, from here,
we're just letting it kind of do its thing, publish it,
and then it would show up back in that workshop app.
This is where the rest of the company would consume it.
Or if they're doing other workflows like in their AI tools,
they can reference them there too.
This is nice if you're just doing a general peruse of like,
"What's going on in TechOps?"
But if you need more tactical information or your T conflicting,
you'd probably go back to the AI tool.
So like--
But I think that important part is you're talking about,
I'm collaborating across teams,
across an entire organization.
The ontology is at the center, no matter which tool.
So one team might like using Cloud Code,
one might be using AI IFT, one might be using codecs,
another using copilot.
I don't care if the ontology is that single back-end layer
across the enterprise and workflows,
not only for that interactive kind of, you know,
agent to kind of coding pieces here,
but if I then want to codify it into a workflow
that's just happening automatically,
you can do that inside of Pautier,
you can do it outside.
That interoperability and openness is really
what I'm trying to get at is like,
"I don't care."
It really comes back to what is the right thing
for your organization,
how do you get the most value out of it?
And using that ontology to orchestrate all of that.
Right, yeah.
And I think maybe another point on top of that is like,
we've been very fluid with the tools that we use.
This is obviously a very dynamic industry.
There's, you know, new things are landing constantly.
The preferences for which tool developers
like to use changes on a near daily basis.
Not feeling stuck with any particular configuration
or set of tools has been very liberating.
You can jump again from, you know,
Cloud Code, to codecs, to copilot,
to whatever depending on what you need.
Depending on what latest version happens to have
the features that people want or latest models or whatever.
Be able to have that fluidity has been really helpful.
And, you know, again, a lot of times
the best thing will be doing it inside Foundry itself.
But other times, you know, you're meeting users
where they are and whatever tool happens to be the best today.
Yeah, no, this is awesome.
I think the kind of openness,
because I think we hit on the ontology MCP
where I'm having MCPs or on that ontology piece,
but like we also have the platform MCP.
So you can actually interact and build stuff
in the platform through MCP
and then consume it through the ontology, you know, MCP as well.
So it really is fully like dynamic
from that standpoint of having MCP integration,
SDK integration, like that really is kind of the core
across everything we're doing.
I mean, how do you have a single ontology
for that business process?
But then you can interact with it in all the different ways
that you need to to kind of meet your needs.
Yep, yeah, exactly.
It's like, this would be such a cool workflow
to actually do this manually once
and just say connect to the other MCP server
and start building it in Foundry.
And it just would take off.
It would have all the context from your discovery here.
It would distill it
and then you would be on your way to a new use case.
And there's something quite powerful about that.
You get, you really like raise the competence bar
every time you go through the process.
Yeah, all right.
So it looks like it submitted the plan.
It's an ontology.
It's like a bid.
Yep.
So let's take a look. It should be one
of the few T3 plans here.
There we go, tech support.
All right, so yeah, it looks like it navigated the ontology.
It made all the key results and objectives correctly,
published it all, did a really nice job.
I didn't have to click through a bunch of forms and things.
It was easy.
And I spent zero time on publishing
and sorting out the formatting of the plan
and all of my time actually planning.
And now you have a structured plan
that integrates with the rest of your product pieces
or other information in your business.
And now I have ways I can keep against it
and do whatever I want.
Like pretty cool.
I think having that piece of structured component
that allows me to process unstructured data, right?
I think that's back and forth of how organizations
really work is pretty neat.
So awesome.
So now, yeah, so I'm destroying a question in here,
a typical kind of thing that you might want to know is like,
where is the tech support team blocked
on the network engineering team?
So now that all that is published,
it can peruse all that and start to understand
where these teams have interdependencies,
where they need to file, work, and issues on each other
and where they are and are not unblocked
and where they can make progress.
So I came back pretty quick with that one.
I came up with a short list of areas
where they have dependencies on each other.
Again, this kind of stuff is just so tedious normally
and being able to just ask these free form questions
and then just use that as a launching point
to actually do the work, really, really helpful.
>> Yeah, and I know like we're a technology company
showing how we can build different products and these things,
but as people think about this in their organizations,
whether that's planning out business events
or other components or how am I actually
going to run my business, this same kind of a thing
could be applied across your sales data
with your business and supply chain and other things.
Like that same concept on planning can be happening
in a lot of different ways, whether that's software,
supply chain, manufacturing, whatever it is.
This same ability to have the agility
and meet people where they are with the tools
that they're using and making sense.
Like that is truly kind of the poutier way
of being open and integrated across everything.
>> Yeah, no, absolutely.
I think this demo, the ontology that I showed
was so like tiny compared to the one
that we actually have at our disposal internally.
I mean, the breadth of types of questions
we've been able to ask and launch off from here
is like, it's just pretty awesome.
Like all kinds of our employee history data,
the things they've worked on, like the types of skills
that they have being able to do,
like really more intelligent resource thing,
understanding the type, you know, for our developer,
like what are they actually working on?
What are their pull requests?
Like what's the shape of things that they've expertise in?
Like as someone who does a combination
of technical work and operational work
from planning, resourcing, hiring, stuff like that,
just being able to have one place
where I can ask general questions,
build these analyses is really, really helpful.
And I have done a lot of cases where, you know,
you'll ask a few questions, you get a sense of like,
okay, these are the kinds of things
that I want to keep an eye on.
And then I'll go and I'll make that into like a workshop
app that has like a dashboard or something like that.
And that way I can just refer to it.
So, you know, you have this nice promotion flow
where you go from exploratory
up to like a nice codified thing that you just keep referring.
>> Yeah, yeah.
Well, this is awesome Mike.
I really appreciate you taking the time
to show everyone, like, this is pretty neat
that I can really integrate with Ontology MCP
across business workflows.
I think it's good to get people thinking about
how do we like think about what is this new world
looking like?
You just gave a couple of examples of like resource play,
what are people working on?
Like all these other business functions
that you can now integrate with
in all the different tools with one centralized knowledge base,
which is the Ontology.
So very cool.
Thank you.
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, we're really excited about it.
I think people are going to love this thing.
It's really cool.
