good morning everyone. So as you've heard all this morning, we were giving you a lot of very
exciting tools to build agents in production. And I want to take a few minutes of your time to talk
about the experience that underlines all of this, which is the developer experience, that applies
to agents, but also to your all-new regular development. Now the spoiler is in the title,
that's what we call the super repo. And my colleague John, who's standing at the back there,
gave a quick sneak peek of super repo at the last DEF CON. And that's developers, developers,
developers, developers. Thank you. He may have borrowed this from someone who's a bit more famous,
but I think that that's how much we care about developers at POUND here. And I think like what
I want to do this time is talk to you about what's available to you today in terms of super repo,
but also how it ties into agenda development and all of the features that you can leverage there.
Before we do this, let's take a quick step back. So you're building an application stack or a new
workflow that you're trying to automate within Foundry. The way you usually do this is you start
with pipelines, you get all of your data in, ingest that. And then on top of this, you start adding
some structure. So you build your ontology, you define some objects and links between them.
And once you do this, you have a correct schema, you go ahead and try to implement logic into that
ontology. And this is where you offer functions and then expose them through actions. And once
you have all of this ready, you try to add something on top of it. So you're adding a UI,
whether that's a workshop application or something that you built in, you know, using the OSDK and
let's say a React app. And then increasingly, we're here to talk about the agents as well.
And so agents are also a user of the rest of the stack, but also something that sits next to it
at the front end layer at some point. So either it's an agent that's operating your ontology and
operating your workflow, or it's something that you as a user is interfacing with your stack
through this agent. And so that entire stack is incredibly powerful and it's standalone and full
stack on its own, but it's really powerful because it plugs into the rest of the Foundry ecosystem.
And so for free, you usually get all of this kind of like resource management and security and markings
and deployability of this throughout the entire stack. Now, on the developer platform team,
we often speak about developer loops. And so what I mean by that is what does it take for
you as a developer, let's say you have an existing application, to go from an idea to then implement
it in the ontology, change your schema, propagate that to functions and actions, and then propagate
that all the way to the front end application that your users are interacting with. And our goal
really is to make that developer loop as fast as possible. That matters for developers, but it
matters like 10-fold or 100-fold for agents. So coding agents that are trying to operate on your
stack and iterate on new ideas, that loop matters more. And so what we want is we don't want you to
have to jump between applications at every layer or wait between if I make a change at one layer
and then I go and try to implement it somewhere else, I have to wait for CI to run in between those.
So that's something that we don't like because that kind of like slows down your developer loop.
And often development is not linear. So what you do is you don't know exactly what your ontology
is going to look like before you go and implement the front end. You discover it iteratively over
time and back and forth. And it's a very messy process where you have to go back and forth
between applications. And so what we're trying to do is we're going to try to solve that.
And the way we're solving that is by condensing this entire stack into what we call the super repo.
And I'm very pleased to say that super repo is now available in data for DevCon users,
and it's going to be available to all of you at your own stacks by the end of this month.
So what's a super repo? Well, the naive version of this is that it's a mono repo that lets you
do all of the above. And so you can define objects in code. Define all of your ontology there.
But you can also import objects that exist. So you don't have to start from scratch. You can just
type import of an existing object and we'll code gen that for you in code. It also lets you define
functions and actions and also front end applications all within the same repository. And then you
do that by also leveraging the rest of the platform. So you get security and resource management and
observability and all of that for free. And then the last stage is there's no point building an
application if you can't deploy it. So what you'll be able to do is also deploy it to production
directly from the super repo. And what we'll do is we'll go create all of those resources for you
from that single mono repo. Now, the way to think about super repo is that this is the way that
we're defining DevEx for us and the DevEx strategy for the next few years. And so all of the capabilities
that you've heard about this time and possibly at future DevCons will be part of super repo.
So you'll be able to define like in the future automations and agents, you'll be able to build
pipelines. Anything that you can do in the platform should be defined through the super repo.
And I think importantly what super repo is is it's built on top of the ontology. So it's not just
about having a full stack framework standing on its own. It really is leveraging the rest of the
platform and the rest of the ontology. So what I mean by that concretely is let's say your team
is a team of developers. You're building agents, you're building your ontology in code, your
functions in code, everything in code and you have your full code stack. We still want you to be
able to publish those objects and have someone else on another team leverage the same objects
and actions in your ontology by building workshop applications or automations or maybe analytics on
that. We don't want those to be separate concepts. We want them all to be compounding on top of
each other. So let's maybe I'll jump to a demo to show you what that means concretely. But before
I go there, maybe like very quick. And if you have any questions about any of those blocks,
take a picture, ask me about it over the next two days. So the reason I said the naive definition
of super repo is that it's a mono repo that lets you define your ontology as code and everything
else together is because I think it's a lot more than that. It's about the developer loop that
comes with it. So what we did is we rebuilt your entire developer stack through a local embedded
ontology in Rust that runs on your machine, that you can develop against it and that you can test,
run test cases, integration tests against that as well. And I'll show you in a second what that
looks like. And so AI agents can leverage that as well. So you can just give an idea of a feature,
start from the ontology. It can make the ontology change, see it in functions, see the front end,
and then be able to test all of that using mock data all locally without having to wait for
processes in between. So that means that you don't have to wait for any external systems or CI checks
to be able to make a quick change, discover that you made a mistake, go back, do that change again,
and do that back and forth, back and forth. And what we're trying to do is we're building all of
that with a first class integrated developer standard tools. So you'll be able to host all of the
super repo and deploy through first class integrations in the platform. But let's say your team already
has a GitHub setup with your own circle CI and your opinion about that, you'll also be able to do
super repo in there and then publish to the platform and still leverage everything else that comes with
it. And then the last bit here is this deployment through marketplace. We don't believe there's a
pro code, a good pro code developer experience without a good pro code DevOps experience.
And so we don't want you to be able to build a super repo and then have to go and click
your eyes to do this. So what you'll be able to do is using just a found redeploy command,
whether you run that on your local machine or run that in CI, you'll be able to deploy to as many
stacks as you want your application. Does that sound exciting? Cool. Do you want to see a quick demo?
All right. I'll jump to my laptop. Okay. So this is a notional demo of an incident triage
tool that I built for my team. It's a very simple one. You'll see that we have a bunch of tickets
here. And if you've been on call at some point, you probably know that you get a bunch of dumps
of stack traces and messages in those tickets. And you have some metadata that's not filled because
who has a lot of time for that. And so what I built here is like build a quick agent that
I'm going to trigger here. What it does is it looks at this ticket. It's an agent that runs in
platform. And then it's going to analyze a bunch of information called tool calls that gets me my
on call schedules, et cetera, who's responsible for that part of the stack. And it's going to just
triage it to decide the severity. It decided who the on call person based on what they work on.
And then just kind of like from the stack trace triage that. And so all of that is built in a
super repo. You can actually see the code here from the front end to the ontology to the back end
that underpins it. It's all defined in the super repo. Now this is kind of like the front end view
of this, but I wanted to show you the guts of it. So where does my ontology look like behind this?
So if I pull back the curtain on my application, I have this view which is kind of like my back door
or admin view of what my ontology looks like. And you can see that I have two concepts in my world.
So I have the engineer and the incident and the linked by an assignment link between those two
objects. But if you notice those tickets, so if I like pull this back, if you'll notice I have this
service field that's not being filled. And my agent doesn't know about how to triage my
tickets to my services. And that's because I don't have the concept of a service within my world.
My ontology does not know about services. And that's what we're going to implement very quickly.
So if I go back to my code, I have this ontology MTS file that defines my ontology and code. I can
do this programmatically. I can do this in a loop. I can do this with an agent, whatever you prefer.
And what I'm going to do is come here and just
uncomment the service object. And so what I should be able to see is if I go back to my ontology,
kind of like admin view, it will automatically update. And so what it's doing is it's not just
reading the code in this case. What it's doing is it's reading the ontology backend that's running
locally and just reflecting that state of the world in here. So I can see very quickly, oh,
now I have services. And we know about services, but they're kind of like disconnected. So what
do I do about that? Well, I have to add links, of course. And the way that I do this is I link
services to incidents, but I also link services together because they're interconnected and they
have dependencies. And I just need to go there and define a foreign key on the incident object.
And what we should see is in a second, what we're doing under the hood is we're entirely
regenerating your OSDK. We're regenerating your OSDK. We're changing the development server. We're
changing your schema there. And then we're reloading your C data so that you can quickly test your
code changes. You can quickly test your application live as it's going. And so I think that's kind of
like a neat way of visualizing all that's happening under the hood of my application. Cool. So now
I have different objects. I have services. They get linked to incidents. How do I make my agent
aware of them? So if you've noticed, when I did add the service object and I added the foreign key
on the incident, I get an error in my editor that says the service ID is missing from my triage
agent. And so that's a neat way of showing that because I have all of those concepts within the
super repo, when I make a change, I can tell like my editor and my linter rules can tell me, hey,
you added the service concept to the triage function, but that you haven't handled this in
your agent. And so I need to go there and I just click here and it tells me, oh, like, this is my
triage agent. It's also defined in my super repo. And I can do that. I can add that kind of like
connection between services and agents. So I'm going to be -- to very quickly just do this.
I have a prompt here that's presave and it tells my agent to assign services based on the root calls
and analyzing the stack trace. And then I have a tool call that -- a tool call that gets my service
topology between the different services. And so what I'm doing here is I use the third-party
harness. You can bring any harness you want to build an agent within the super repo. And it will
also be -- we'll have first-class support for agent SDK and everything that Natasha and everyone
else spoke about today. And so very quickly, I'll define those services. And this is the error in
question, which is my triage decision was missing the service concept that I added in my ontology.
I added in my action, but I never updated my agent to do this. And so if we go there, what I should
see now is if I close this, I should be able to take a ticket, let's say, and then triage it very
quickly. And hopefully my agent should now be aware of services. And it should be able to kind
of like show me the service view. One set that I forgot about is -- so I don't have any seed data.
And I actually forgot about adding seed data to this. If we go back very quickly to my -- to this
view, you'll notice that I have five objects, three objects, but zero objects for my services.
And that's because I never went to my services MTS, which exists in my ontology, seed data folder,
and I never added those. So I need those to do tests and integration tests, but I can just
go here and uncomment those as well and the service object. And ideally, I should be able to kind
of like see a change here that tells me that I have those objects reloaded within my local
embedded ontology. And so let's go back and run this again. It's a five triage log-in latency
ticket. Ideally, I should be able to get that correctly triage to my off system. So I think I
like this like services. It seems like I made a mistake in my code, which happens sometimes.
Let's see where I did that. Probably didn't write the service down. Cool. We can -- we can reach
the service. So again, those mistakes happen often during the development process. It could
be a personal -- so still having a problem with that. But the idea here is -- well, we can't skip
this. That was the last part of the demo. And I can show you that it works right in a few minutes.
But the idea is that this -- this usually kind of like -- I get this quick feedback and this quick
developer loop across those different stages. So what I did there is I didn't have to go and add
that service object to my ontology manually and then define my function and then define kind of
like the front end for it. I can do this all within the super equally. If I notice that there's a
mistake or I notice there's a link missing, I'll go debug this in a second. But I can just do that
quick development. Or I can ask my local coding agents. And what I like about this is I get to spin
up 20 work trees, for example, and explore different ideas and parallel and they don't conflict with
each other because they're all running locally against a local embedded ontology. And then I get
to merge all of this together. So if you go back to the slide. All right. So that whole application
stack available to you in a super repo and you'll be able to get access to this at this devcon,
those are the concepts that are available today. Pipelines are not yet available, but they're coming
in the future. And most importantly, they get, you get to leverage the entirety of the stack rather
than just one component of it. So very quickly, agent definitions, you can, you get to do that
today with third party harnesses and agent SDK is coming soon. We focus heavily on typescript
function editing, but Python is also in the works and it's coming very soon. And then you'll be also
able to define automates. And we think automates is particularly important for anyone here who's
doing automatic workflows within your enterprise. You'll be able to do that entirely with agents
and automates and objects together within your super repo. And then longer term again, as I said
earlier, you should be thinking about this as your kind of like our dev strategy. So you'll get more
coverage over time. And this is one of the, this gets me to my last thing here, which is we started
this super repo idea and like built conviction for it by talking to developers at a previous
dev con. And so it's really important when you come grab us, talk to us. We have three
canary sessions running. The entire super repo team is here at this dev con. So just grab us,
tell us what you like about it, what you hate about it. And hopefully we will work on fixing
and adding those features. So thank you everyone.
