Welcome, everyone. So I'm going to use this session to kind of expand a little bit on
what Ankit just mentioned, in particular about how to build production agents at scale as
it relates to the infrastructure layer. So I want to show you how Orchestrator, a new
product that we're launching, lays the foundation for building agents that you can trust. So
everyone here has probably seen a dozen demo layer agents that seemingly tackle some interesting
business problem or valuable workflow, but in reality, those agents almost always fail
when you put them in production. But to see why that is, I actually want us to walk through
building an agent from scratch and then look at all the ways in which that agent can fail
before showing how Orchestrator, the new product we're launching, actually solves these problems.
I'll then tie it all together with a demo at the end where we can actually see this running
on our DevCon stack. But before I build this agent, I kind of want to talk about how these
agents don't exist in a vacuum. They exist as part of a broader context in part of your
organization, which has a lot of integrations, data integrations, processes, complex slur
explodes, et cetera. So all the problems I'm going to show you for a single agent get even
more difficult to reason about and more challenging when these agents start interacting with each
other and the rest of your organization. So with that in mind, the agent we're going
to build today is a patient discharge agent that is responsible for coming up with a discharge
plan for a patient before they leave the hospital. So what does this look like? This agent works
by taking in a patient identifier, getting some context from the current date, and then
passing it off to an agentic loop to actually call some tools and draft a discharge plan
before finally awaiting for a doctor sign off before executing some real world effects of
sending off to the pharmacy and billing the insurance. It's pretty simple. Despite this
agent being simple, it already has a large number of major issues that might not be obvious.
That's because when you run this agent in production, it's only a matter of time until
it crashes. And this could be from the process dying, a node upgrading, out of memory issue,
model failure, model provider outage. There's a million reasons why your agent might fail
and it will eventually fail. And the first problem is actually that we need to detect
that the agent failed. And that itself isn't that easy, especially when you have thousands
of these running in parallel across your organization. And my colleague today is going to talk about
how we tackle that problem, so I'm not going to touch on it right now. But let's say for
the purpose of this discussion, we do discover that the agent failed. It's unacceptable for
us to like just let that be. We need this to succeed eventually because we need to make
sure the patient gets their prescriptions. We need to make sure their insurance gets billed.
So let's do the naive thing that we want to do as a software engineer, which is turn it
off and turn it back on again. Restart the process. Well, the first problem we run into
for restarted is that the agent has no memory. If the agent's data is only stored locally,
then when you restart the process, it will be gone. And that's kind of a problem, right?
You can't resume anything. So the naive solution here would be to take the agent's conversation
history, maybe store it to disk or a durable store like S3. But this actually is not sufficient
because when this agent re-exocutes, even if the model stores the -- or if you store the
model's conversation history, you're actually not going to have the stored results of these
contextual variables. So to make that concrete, let's take the sense variable here. If I ran
the agent initially at, let's say, 1158 p.m. on a Tuesday, and then it crashes, and I rerun
it at 1202 a.m. just four minutes later on a Wednesday, that variable is actually going
to propagate into these tool calls and resolve to different values. So the fetchlabs call on
the first run would return Tuesday's labs. The fetchlabs call on the next run would return
Wednesday's labs. This leads to non-deterministic behavior in your agent that could be really
hard to reason about and causes a lot of problems. So the next problem we run into is that these
agents -- restarting an agent can lead to duplicate side effects in the real world, right? Like
agents are only useful if they're doing something. And you don't want that thing to happen more
than once. You don't want to send a prescription to the pharmacy twice. You don't want to double
bill a patient's insurance. And it's not just the functions you see on screen here that might
double execute. It's also the functions in the tool calls that might double execute. And so we
have to find a way to handle that as well. And then a third problem is that these agents can't
wait, but you kind of need them to, right? Like there's a lot of human interaction in real agent
workflows. Like in this case, we need a doctor to sign off before we send a prescription to a
pharmacy. We need to make sure that prescription is valid for that patient's. And keeping a long
lived process open, like doing the naive thing and just having your agent running somewhere,
lends itself to running into any of the problems I mentioned earlier around out of memory issues,
nodes, restarts, upgrades, et cetera. And so on top of that, there's also the problem of like,
if you have thousands of these agents running, that's incurring a lot of compute costs. It starts
adding up. And then another problem is that you can't easily replay agents. So if you have a bug
in a service or an API, the naive thing to do would be, oh, I want to hit it again with the thing
that caused the bug and try to recreate the scenario to try to debug it, basically. You can't really
do that for agents because the world's moved on. Time has moved forward. Side effects have happened.
Maybe this person has a new allergy and the check allergies tool call resolves something else than
it did the first time. It adds too many variables in here to be able to easily figure out what happened
in the debugging process for these agents. So this highlights one of the central tensions you face
when building agents, which is that the more capabilities and access an agent has, the more
powerful it is and the more business value can achieve. But that also leads to more complicated
and dangerous failure modes for that agent. And this reveals a key insight about agents themselves,
which is that the bottleneck for an agent's usefulness today is often not intelligence. It
is trust. Every AI company in the world right now is spending breathtaking amounts of money
making their model smarter. And it's working. The models are getting smarter. But the difference
between the current world and a world in which agents accomplish real work is not intelligence.
It's that we trust those agents to be able to safely complete that work.
Because when an agent fails, those failures can have real world consequences, whether it's our
patient getting to their medication multiple times or duplicate database rights leading to
database corruption, double billing for a purchase. There's many examples of how the agent interactions
with the world are dangerous and need to be trustworthy for us to rely on them. And these actions
impact the real world, and they can't be undone. So making agents trustworthy enough to put in
production is a problem we've been solving at Palantir for years now across many agents and
many customer use cases. And I want to show now how we've codified a lot of those learnings
into our new product called Orchestrator. So here's the same discharge agent that I showed earlier,
except for this time we've made it durable by wrapping it in our new Orchestrator SDK.
So by introducing only two methods, Orchestrator.run and Orchestrator.signal, we're able to solve all
the problems that I mentioned earlier and a few more that I'll talk about in a second.
And the way it works is like this. Wrapping each step in Orchestrator.run causes the operation
to be executed once and then recorded into the Orchestrator service's ledger. This ledger
is durably stored so that you don't need to worry about it going away if the agent fails or restarts.
On every later re-invocation we replay that recorded result from the ledger
instead of re-executing the code directly. And the doctor sign off, I'll talk about in a second,
but that's now replaced with our Orchestrator signal and I'll explain how that works in a couple
slides. So here you can see an actually simplified view of the Orchestrator ledger for a successful
agent run. You can see that the first ledger entry has the value of day and it actually resolves
to a specific date. The second and third show actual tool calls the agent made and then the fourth
shows the actual result of the discharge plan from the agent loop itself. The fifth and sixth
finally show the side effects that the agent took in this case, sending meds to the pharmacy
and billing the insurance. So this ledger allows us to resume agents after failure or suspension
by rehydrating the agent's execution state from the ledger. So let's see what this looks like in
practice. Imagine that we have a similar failure as before, the agent crashes. Only this time it's
backed by Orchestrator. On re-invocation, the function reruns top to bottom, but every finished
Orchestrator dot run call short circuits. It returns the recorded result that we stored in the ledger
and rehydrates the variable in code with that value. So the date replays to the exact same day
that it ran the first time. The agent loop has already completed before the crash so we can actually
skip computing that result entirely, saving us model tokens and time. And critically the medication
order does not fire a second time regardless of when the crash occurred because we're able to store
the execution attempt plus an item potency key in the ledger to be able to ensure that we get
exactly once execution. And once you realize that restarting agents is safe, you realize that you
can build agents that can stop. And so the way that this works is that the Orchestrator.signal method
allows these processes to check if a signal has been completed and if it hasn't, allows the agent
to suspend. And suspend here means that the process is entirely torn down. It has no memory,
no CPU, no disk. It does not exist anywhere except for in the ledger basically. And it therefore
costs nothing, which is great. So when the doctor approves, whether that's minutes, hours or days,
later, the signal is written into the ledger and Orchestrator will spin up a new micro VM,
re-invote the agent and rehydrate it with the existing state plus the information completed
from the signal, thus resuming where it left off. And this makes waiting essentially free. And so
you can have thousands of agents suspended for basically an unbounded amount of time without
incurring any costs or having to manage their life cycle and don't have to deal with the like
out-of-memory issues, node restarts, failures, et cetera, all the things I mentioned earlier.
So to recap, the four problems we introduced in our basic agent are all fixed. But to be clear,
those are not the only problems you'll face when running an agent in production. There's
actually a lot more under the surface that I'm just going to mention briefly. So isolation.
Agents executing code is inherently dangerous, but also extremely powerful. Micro VMs provide
kernel-level isolation preventing malicious code execution. So we run all of our agents in these
micro VMs. Sub-agent orchestration. So all the problems I mentioned before get even more challenging
when you have agents calling agents in essentially creating a large execution graph that can be tens
or hundreds of agents deep. And so if you have things like failures, retries, cancellations,
you need to be able to propagate that through the entire graph and manage these life cycles
of these agents kind of together as a collective security. So security is one of our principles
in Foundry. And so we obviously have very sophisticated security controls for our agents
to gate what kind of resources they can have access to and permissioning models for restricting
how and what agents can interact with in your platform. And then observability at scale.
So my colleague, Chris, is going to talk about this later. So I'm not going to talk about it now,
but suffice it to say that observability is very important as well. So I want to show a simplified
diagram of how these pieces fit together so you can kind of see a little bit of the architecture.
So starting from left to right, when an agent execution request enters orchestrator,
we put it into a queue and this queue allows us to support things like back pressure. So if there's
a model provider outage or you're at token limits, we can actually hold the work in the
execution request in the queue and wait for those resources to become available. When they do become
available, we pull it off in our event loop and we then call our core-dite service, which is what
manages our micro VMs, to spin us up basically a new micro VM and we start running the agent.
The agent is then free to make tool calls, to execute code in line, call subagents, etc.,
and continue kind of running until it hits a suspension point. When it hits a suspension point,
it actually shuts down entirely and exists only in the ledger at this point in orchestrator
and will wait for some signal service to complete a signal to rehydrate or spin up basically.
An example of the signal services could be like an LLM call completion, a user approval like we
showed in the demo earlier, ontology, object additions or removals, timers, web hooks, etc.,
basically any real world event that you would want to trigger an action can have a signal completion
event that models it and allows you to respin up your agent from it. When the signal is completed,
we then rehydrate the agent using the ledger plus the signal data to kind of resume where it left
off and continue its execution. All of this complexity in this diagram gets distilled down
into two simple methods, orchestrator.run for executable execution and orchestrator.signal
for enabling agents that can suspend. And this reflects one of the key design goals in Foundry,
which is to extract away the complex infrastructure concerns to allow developers to be able to focus
on building against their business outcomes directly. So with that, let's look at some actual agent
code running on a Palantir stack to show you how this looks in real life. Great, so here is
the TypeScript version of the code we just showed. You can see that we have this orchestrator context
which is our orchestrator SDK. We then have our computing the synths variable,
which is one of the variables that had a bug in it that we showed earlier. We then load a patient
from the ontology before finally sending the patient information plus a handful of tool calls
into this agent running loop which actually computes the plan. And then we finally wait the
clinician sign off before diving into actually executing the side effects for this discharge
plan. So sending the medications to the pharmacy and billing the insurance agent.
So what does it actually look like when we run it? Well, if we come over here and we take a new
patient, a notional patient, and we hit execution, you can actually see it going through the various
steps of this agent. It's resolving the admissions date. It's fetching the patient record. That's
the ontology lookup. Here's calling the different tools. And here it's actually getting the results
from these tools. And then we actually see that one of our tool calls has a approval process in
it. So I'll talk about that in a second. But first I just want to dive into this technical details
tab we added which shows what this ledger actually looks like. So we can see all of these task
completions. These all represent different orchestrator.run calls. And each one of them stores durably
the actual resolution of that run call. And so if we were to fail, then we could rehydrate
using this orchestrator ledger for this particular patient discharge. And so the next thing I want
to highlight is that we actually have this tool call here called fetch external records. And so
here's what that code looks like. And the kind of interesting thing is that getting orchestrator
or getting the agent to suspend is as simple as just adding in this orchestrator.signal method
and then kind of providing a few fields to fill it out. And then from there you actually have the
ability to prevent the execution of this tool because this is like an external database manipulation
tool as an example. So you can want to gate it the approval on a user sign off before you actually
execute the logic for this tool. So flipping back to our demo, if I hit grant access, actually
before I get there, so this process is currently suspended. And I just want to re-highlight that
that means this isn't running anywhere. It's not running on any, there's no memory, no CPU,
there's nothing. There's no VM associated with this right now. And as soon as I hit grant access,
it's actually going to spin up a new micro VM, rehydrate from scratch, and actually proceed to
generating the discharge plan. And so you can kind of see it kicked off. There we go. Now we have a
plan. This looks pretty good to me. And we have a bill for the insurance. Looks great. And so this
kind of corresponds in code just to circle back to it to the orchestrator.signal here, which is
waiting the clinician sign off on the final plan. So if I hit go ahead and hit approve and sign off,
you'll see that it actually moves forward to fulfilling the side effects of this execution,
so it's going to dispatch to the pharmacy, and it's going to send the invoice to the insurance
company. Let's completing this agent loop. Great. So to circle back to where we started,
the bottleneck for this agent was not intelligent. There's plenty of models out there smart enough
to date to draft discharge plans. It was trust. And this is just one example of this agent.
Basically, the same foundational primitives of suspension durability and isolation can be used
to take any high stakes agent and make it something you can trust with real world data,
with real world customers and real world consequences. Thank you.
