Hello, everybody.
Welcome back.
I'm very excited to talk to you about Palantir's journey
in navigating an increasingly complex cybersecurity
landscape and how you can use agents with Security Forge
to secure your own engineering estate.
But before I get into that to introduce myself,
my name is Nick, and I'm an infrastructure security
engineer here at Palantir.
I've been working very closely on our deployment of AI
to secure our own engineering ecosystem
against an increasingly capable adversary who's
utilizing AI and agents to attempt
to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems.
And that's the exact problem that we're trying to solve.
It's adversaries are utilizing AI at a speed and scale
that we haven't seen before.
And how do we defend against that?
So to start, we need to understand the threat landscape
and the ecosystem that we need to secure.
And that's all of the software that we've ridden,
all of the VMs and containers that we've
deployed our code to in production,
all of the network appliances that
exist in our ecosystem and more.
And previously, the battle has always
been between human attackers and human defenders.
And what that's looked like is that human attackers
were probing systems, writing deterministic scripts
to attempt to understand vulnerabilities in systems,
and otherwise detect misconfigurations.
And that scale was manageable.
Human defenders deployed their own engineers
and security expertise and their own scripts
to attempt to find those misconfigurations and vulnerabilities
before the attackers.
However, today we live in a world where humans are no longer
the only threat.
Instead, LLMs are increasingly being
used to scale cyber threat operations at a speed and scale
that no human team can overcome alone.
So this is what has led us to what we know today
to be security forage.
But how did we get to security forage?
We started with a problem of our own.
Is how did we scale our internal application security
processes in order to review all of the code that our developers
were creating with tools like cloud code and codecs?
Because we were no longer able to keep up
with human reviews of all of that code coming in.
And we started with that single cloud code session
that we all begin with.
And leveraging codebase as the context.
And we're able to gather a lot of insights
about the security posture of our systems
by utilizing cloud code.
But that didn't scale too well as we
were trying to understand many code bases at a single time.
So that's where we moved on to a multi-agent architecture,
where we're utilizing multiple subagents
and multiple cloud code or codecs sessions at a single time.
And this is how we began to start to scale our ability
to review these services in parallel
and otherwise find potential vulnerabilities in the systems.
However, we noticed that the results weren't exactly
what we were looking for.
It wasn't capturing that unique context of what
makes Palantir Palantir and what makes your engineering
organization unique.
And what we landed on was this third step
is that multi-agent architecture that lets us scale.
But combine that with all of the context and engineering
expertise of the internal documentation
and understanding of the API attack surface
of your organization and apply that to the agents.
With that information, the agents
are able to understand the code bases specifically
to the domains and context in which we deploy our own software.
So for example, at Palantir, we have a microservice architecture
where we don't roll our authentication services
to every single one of our products.
Instead, we have a single service
that each of those products integrate with.
What that means is that there's specific design best practices
and anti-patterns that our developers have to look out for.
That specific knowledge, when applied to agents,
is enables them to find those misconfigurations
that otherwise wouldn't be found with a generic cloud
code session.
And that's the key insight.
It's all of the information that
has made our human engineers excel.
We need to figure out how to give that information
to the agents.
And that brings us to security forge,
which intends to close the vulnerability remediation loop.
And it's what sits between your system of record, your source
code, the documentation that you have
about your engineering architecture,
and the deployment infrastructure,
while coordinating everything through the ontology.
And this allows us to autonomously find novel vulnerabilities.
We're able to speed up the remediation
of known vulnerabilities in our systems
and otherwise understand our security posture
and defend against those adversarial threats at the scale
and speed that we need to operate at.
And this loop, what you have, is security forge,
starting with the detection and the validation
of vulnerabilities that are found,
moving on to the remediation and resolution of those issues.
And finally, circling back and making
this a continuously improving process that learns over time
and gets better with every single run.
So I want to start with a real vulnerability
that security forge found.
And we'll begin at the end.
With this, we have a recommendation
of how to resolve this vulnerability.
We can see that we can trigger an automated cogeneration
service in order to go fix that vulnerability.
Or we can leverage the ontology MCP
and package all of this context that security forge has gathered
along the way in its ability to find this vulnerability
and hand it to the developers where they know best.
And that's likely going to be them working in Cloud code
or codecs on their local machines.
And by meeting developers where they are,
we're able to give them the context about the description
of that vulnerability.
Every single code location that might be at stake here
in this vulnerability, what's the impact?
Why did we find this vulnerability,
and how did we find this vulnerability?
Then we're able to ground the results of what
we found in the commonly accepted security community
standards of CVE records, of CWEs, of MITRE ATT&CK
and defend techniques.
And in doing that, we make the system explainable and reliable
so that we're not hallucinating a CVSS score or severity.
And instead, we can rely on the ontology
in order to ground the agents results in what matters most.
And from this reference knowledge architecture,
we're able to understand exactly how that vulnerability was
found.
But how is that produced across all of these agents?
And with that, we come into our orchestration layer.
So when we're looking at orchestrating multiple agents
across an entire code base, we like to start
with a threat modeling step, just like how any application
security review would begin.
With that threat model in hand, we
hands that information in context of the attack
surface and of all the different API endpoints that
could be at stake to vulnerability hunting agents.
And those hunting agents are tasked
with specific jobs in order to find certain types
of vulnerabilities.
So you see here an agent tasked with finding
authentication bypass issues.
Next, we move on to the triage step,
where we attempt to figure out if this vulnerability is, in fact,
a true positive.
Or we dismiss it outright.
And then we move on to a deduplication step
and the reporting phase so that our human engineers at the end
of the loop don't have to sift through hundreds or thousands
of findings in a report that isn't prioritized.
And instead, we're able to surface exactly what
they need to know right when they know it,
so we can leverage their excellence and their expertise
to the maximal effect, and that we can actually
start to close that remediation loop faster and faster
and solve the problem that we care about, which
is fixing vulnerabilities in our systems
and not allowing adversaries to attack us rather than just
finding the vulnerabilities in the first place.
So with that, we've seen how a single vulnerability was found
and remediated in this system.
But how do we make this useful across an entire organization
and an entire organization of hundreds or thousands
of repositories?
And this obvious part of scale is we'll
run security forge across all of our repositories.
And we do that, and that's with the power of AIP.
But I think a more interesting part of scale
is how do we scale expertise and performance
across those hundreds and thousands of repositories
so that we're not producing generic results?
And with that, we're looking at how
do we want this single harness to be run against each individual
product?
And instead of having that one harness run
against every product of ours, we
want a set of tailored harnesses for each service type,
for each programming language that our code is written in
for every different class of vulnerability or exploit.
And by modeling orchestrators abstractly in this manner,
we're able to pull their configuration from the ontology
and lay it down into our execution engine framework
to let it operate against the code bases
and attempt to find these vulnerabilities.
So we don't have to write a harness every time from scratch.
And that's exactly how we scale.
So you can see here we're creating
a orchestrator specifically tailored
for reviewing JavaScript back-end services.
And in doing that, we can add stages.
So in this stage, we want to start off
with that reconnaissance step of understanding
the attack surface of the code base.
From there, we'll move on to configuring a hunting stage
where we can add multiple agents.
We can coordinate these agents either sequentially
in parallel or in a loop and model this all entirely
in the ontology for our execution engine
to go then run an attempt to find vulnerabilities.
So now that we have an end-to-end vulnerability
remediation loop, we want security forge
to compound over time.
How do we get the results to make security forge
improve upon itself?
And make this loop so that we're not just
finding and fixing vulnerabilities,
but we're capturing that valuable knowledge that
can be used in downstream workflows.
So that could include understanding weaknesses
and code bases, understanding critical hot paths of code
that have brittle security around it,
and also understand how agents behave themselves
in order to go find those vulnerabilities.
So in particular, if we look at understanding how agents actually
acted to find the vulnerabilities that we saw earlier,
we can apply agent introspection in order
to understand every single tool call that was made,
every single MCP server that was used,
as well as all of the reasoning and thinking blocks that
were included in it.
So if an agent takes 10 steps, gets blocked, pivots,
and then ultimately achieves its final goal
of finding the vulnerability, we can understand exactly why
it got blocked.
How did it pivot and get away from that issue
in order to achieve its desired goal?
And then if we're able to feed these insights
into future runs, we can improve this system
so that the next run of security forge
isn't just getting blocked again,
but instead is more performant and can go directly
to the end result that we care about
to speed up that vulnerability remediation loop.
And we're giving our agents access to all of this information
through updated agent definitions,
through MCP servers and our knowledge store.
And in addition to the read access
that we want to give agents, we also
want to give them write access.
And that write access includes writing outputs
to the ontology.
So we're storing data on those threat models in the ontology.
We're storing all of the vulnerabilities that
are being found into the ontology
and storing all of those penetration test reports
in the ontology so that they can be used not only
in future security forge runs, but also
in all of your other workflows that are valuable.
Additionally, we want to be able to dynamically test
these exploits that are being found
and these vulnerabilities that are being detected
to introduce verifiability into the system
so that when our human operators at the end of the system
have to go in and take a look at these results,
we can know for a fact that the results are
of the highest signal and that we're not wasting their time
when they have to look through a report of findings.
And then lastly, we need to drive that knowledge capture
that can be used in the future to capture
that understanding of exactly where vulnerabilities
are being found so that we can update engineering docs
or otherwise improve systems so that vulnerabilities
aren't even introduced into our code bases in the future.
So with that, that's been our journey from starting with AI
to impact and augment our security reviews
all the way to closing the vulnerability remediation loop.
And we've learned along the way that the model alone
wasn't the only answer.
It's all of the context and the system around the model
that we need to build in order to generate the best results.
And we built this structure around the system
to let it to scale to thousands of services
as well as interoperate with all of the existing tools
that we have so that we can compound and get smarter
with every single run in order to secure our enterprise.
Thank you.
